{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial;}{\f2\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Symbol;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red160\green64\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs64 \fs64 \par
}\pard \fs24\qc 
{\plain \fs64 \fs64 Holy Bible}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs48 \fs48 Modern Literal Version}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs32 \fs32 New Testament}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 2015}{\plain \fs24  Update\par
}{\plain \fs24  (11.14.14)\par
}\pard \fs24\qj 
{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs28\qc 
{\plain \fs28 \fs28 (The Open Bible Translation)\par
}{\plain \fs28 \i\fs28 (The world{\u8217\'92}s most accurate English translation.)}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}\pard \fs24\qc 
{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24
\page 
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Presented to:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 ______________________________________________________________________________\par
}{\plain \fs24 By:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 ______________________________________________________________________________\par
}{\plain \fs28 \b\fs28 \par
}\page 
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs28 \b\fs28 Table of Contents for the Modern Literal Version (MLV) printed edition:}{\plain \fs24 \b \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Matthew \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 1\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab  2\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Mark\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 44\ul0 \tab  1 (Start here when reading through the N.T.)\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Luke \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 73\ul0 \tab  4\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 John\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 118\ul0 \tab  3\par
}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Acts: Book of Conversions\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 151\ul0 \tab  5\par
}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Romans\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 192\ul0 \tab 12\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 1 Corinthians\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 208\ul0 \tab 10\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 2 Corinthians \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 224\ul0 \tab 11\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Galatians\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 234\ul0 \tab  9\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Ephesians\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 240\ul0 \tab 13\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Philippians \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 246\ul0 \tab 14\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Colossians \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 250\ul0 \tab 15\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 1 Thessalonians\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 254\ul0 \tab  7\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 2 Thessalonians\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 258\ul0 \tab  8\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 1 Timothy\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 260\ul0 \tab 20\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5760\li5760\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760 
{\plain \fs24 2 Timothy\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 265\ul0 \tab 23\ul0 \tab \par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Titus\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 268\ul0 \tab 21\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Philemon \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 270\ul0 \tab 19\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Hebrews\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 271\ul0 \tab 22\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 James\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 283\ul0 \tab  6\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 1 Peter\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 287\ul0 \tab 16\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 2 Peter\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 291\ul0 \tab 17\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5760\li5760\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760 
{\plain \fs24 1 John\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 294\ul0 \tab 24\ul0 \tab \par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 2 John\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 298\ul0 \tab 25\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 3 John\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 299\ul0 \tab 26\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Jude\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 300\ul0 \tab 18\par
}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24\fi-5040\li5040\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040 
{\plain \fs24 Revelation\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 302\ul0 \tab 27\par
}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24\fi-3600\li3600\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600 
{\plain \fs24 Appendix II\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab Page 322\par
}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 (Note: The order on the side is closer to the way it was written within the sections.)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\page 
\pard \fs72\qc 
{\plain \fs72 \fs72 Holy Bible\par
}{\plain \fs48 \fs48 Modern Literal Version}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs32 \fs32 New Testament}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs24 2015 Update}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}\pard \fs24\qj 
{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24\qj 
{\plain \fs26 \f1\fs26 {\u169\'a9}}{\plain \fs24  Copyright 1999, 2014 by G. Allen Walker, Co-Editor, world wide restrictions as follows:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 We are not here to make money and we will entertain requests for any items not listed below.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 1. Copyright was done to stop some publishing company from copyrighting the MLV and then \softline
stopping free distribution like what happened to Vine{\u8217\'92}s Dictionary and to make sure the actual text \softline
is not changed by anyone but us.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 2. When quoting the {\u8220\'93}Modern Literal Version{\u8221\'94} the quotes are to be noted by {\u8216\'91}Modern Literal \softline
Version{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}MLV{\u8217\'92}. Footnoting larger amounts is totally acceptable.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 3. This translation may be used in any Bible commentary, study module, tract, class book, similar \softline
study materials as long as noted according to the guidelines above and the Modern Literal Version{\u8217\'92}s \softline
part does not exceed 80% of the volume of the total project; so {\u8216\'91}have at it.{\u8217\'92} This basically means you \softline
can quote 5000 verses without permission. (Please contact us first, we might be able to help you \softline
speed your project along.)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 4. After 80% you cannot ever sell the MLV! Including no handling or shipping fees! Please report \softline
any violations. {\u8216\'91}We want to be rich in money as well as Spirit.{\u8217\'92} (smile)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 5. If you want to incorporate this version into computer software form, the answer for non resale \softline
(true non profit or give away) is YES but the request must be formal (paper trail). At any given time \softline
you sell your product, the MLV must be removed from the product. If you find any software or \softline
module that is not linked from our main web page, consider the files there as being altered, pirated \softline
or contains possibly spyware.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 6. The HTML version and search engine can be reproduced on other web sites but requires \softline
permission. (Too many OLD copies of the MLV are around and we would like to have those fixed.)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 7. Createspace.com (link below) is the current publisher of the Modern Literal Version printed \softline
edition and please whenever possible buy directly from them (more of your money stays in the \softline
USA.) List price is $9.39 for the 8.5" x 11", wide margin, Bold Letter Edition paperback. Volume \softline
discounts from the Christian Library about $6 each for 18+ sales includes shipping.\par
}{\plain \fs24 8. Authorized Kindle only from amazon.com.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}\page 
\pard \fs20\qj 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 [PREFACE TO THE MODERN LITERAL VERSION]}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 2015 Update}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Quick Overview:}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The {\u8220\'93}Modern Literal Version{\u8221\'94} uses the Majority Text ({\u8220\'93}The New Testament in the Original Greek Byzantine Textform \softline
2005 Compiled and Arranged by Maurice A. Robinson and William Pierpont{\u8221\'94}).\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Two distinct and opposite techniques are used in translating the New Testament from the Greek. The "Modern Literal \softline
Version" is the first type, a {\u8216\'91}literal' translation sometimes called {\u8216\'91}word-for-word' translation. The second and most \softline
common in the past 30 years is to paraphrase the Greek into English. These are: dynamic equivalence, free style, thought-for-thought , better than a word-for-word and so on.  We understand the value of paraphrases for those looking for a \softline
Bible that reads as easily as a newspaper, however we feel strongly about having a Bible without opinions of what was \softline
meant but instead faithfully reproduces the original Greek Bible into Modern English. One way to look at this is: if there \softline
was a court case with a particular document that was being used as evidence and this document was in a foreign language \softline
would a "thought-for-thought" translation be acceptable?  The {\u8216\'91}document' we are talking about here is the {\u8216\'91}Last Will and \softline
Testament' of our Lord Jesus & Savior. The goal of everyone who worked on the "Modern Literal Version" was to keep \softline
any form of commentary or paraphrase out of this translation as is humanly possible. The MLV is not sold for profit \softline
because there is no denomination or publishing company or foundation behind it. All Christian groups have had the \softline
opportunity to submit fixes or help. The only uninspired traditions kept in the MLV are: punctuation and capitalization; \softline
chapter and verse numbers; and book order.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 The Open Translation Bible:}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The Modern Literal Version Bible is considered {\u8216\'91}finished,{\u8217\'92} although it has been open for revision by anyone since 1998. \softline
Our utmost desire is to have a translation that has no errors and }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 we believe that the best way to produce an error-free \softline
translation is to keep it open to the public in the same manner as {\u8216\'91}open-source software{\u8217\'92} is to programmers. We have \softline
found no better way than our {\u8216\'91}open translation{\u8217\'92} idea in its 15 years to achieve this goal. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Absolutely anyone in the world \softline
is able to contribute, for sure, the few million who have visited the Christian Library have had that opportunity. You, too, \softline
may make recommendations or help with the entire New Testament, with either Greek or English type proofreading. If \softline
the recommendations this next year warrant another update next year, we will do one }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 per year in printed form & Kindle. \softline
If they are simply 20 places that need corrected, we will provide a corrections list on the web site to update printed books. \softline
We plan to update free electronic versions periodically throughout the year if needed. The {\u8216\'91}cutting edge{\u8217\'92} update is always \softline
the }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 BOLD}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  Letter Edition PDF at http://www.ModernLiteralVersion.org/bibles/MLV/MLVBL.pdf \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 As far as we know, this 'open translation' idea is unique to the MLV and you are invited to participate in helping to make \softline
the MLV even better. There is even a Facebook group at https://www.facebook.com/groups/MLVbible. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 All who have \softline
helped, have contributed something to further the readability or accuracy of this translation or simply double checked \softline
all who have worked on this translation before them. It is time the Bible is back into the hands of every day Christians, \softline
not some big publishing company only out to make money. Any corrections please email to mlvbible (at) gmail (dot) \softline
com with subject line: {\u8220\'93}MLV{\u8221\'94}.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Links and General Information:}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 A printed version, 8.5"x11", wide margin, standard 12 point font size and }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 {\u8216\'91}BOLD}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  Letter Edition{\u8217\'92} was made available \softline
in }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Oct. 2013 at https://www.createspace.com/4450574 (The publisher is located in S.C., USA) & \softline
http://www.amazon.com/dp/1492776270 (The Netherlands). The one labeled as {\u8220\'93}2013" version is exactly the same inside \softline
or newer than what is labeled as the current version on Amazon.com but cheaper to purchase about $6.50.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The e-Sword module MLV 2014 modules (not updated often):\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 http://www.biblesupport.com/e-sword-downloads/file/9919-modern-literal-version/}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Also make sure you get the Dictionary / Concordance too:\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 http://www.biblesupport.com/e-sword-downloads/file/9954-modern-literal-version-dictionary-and-concordance}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The {\u8220\'93}Modern Literal Version{\u8221\'94} is available in Amazon{\u8217\'92}s Kindle format too, in Bold Letter Edition for people or Kindles \softline
that are {\u8216\'91}color blind{\u8217\'92} (words of God, Jesus & the Holy Spirit in }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 BOLD}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  print) and the Red Letter Edition, (words of God, \softline
Jesus & the Holy Spirit in }{\plain \fs20 \cf3\fs20 RED}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .)\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Volume discounts from the Christian Library are about $108 for a case of 18 ($6 each) which includes shipping to 48 \softline
states, sales tax in 13 states.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 If you or your congregation}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  has a website, we ask that you help the MLV in the search engine rankings by adding one \softline
or all of the download links above to your site. You may also add this translation with its own search module too. Any \softline
other free advertising like Facebook, Twitter, etc. is always appreciated. Thank you in advance.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Our prayer, and hopefully yours too, is that all the paraphrased translations are removed from your pews and replaced \softline
with the {\u8220\'93}Modern Literal Version.{\u8221\'94} Many congregations give these out to visitors. Maybe yours should think about this \softline
type of evangelism.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 History:}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The {\u8216\'91}Modern Literal Version New Testament{\u8217\'92} came about because of a young Christian{\u8217\'92}s goal to find an accurate \softline
Modern English translation from which to study in 1987. The New American Standard contradicted itself in Matthew \softline
5:17 and Ephesians 2:15 for example. Almost all other Modern English translations do not claim to be literal or word-for-word and most that do are really not. Concordance look-ups showed the non-uniform Greek word renderings in all \softline
existing translations, this too became an  issue of concern.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 A group of Christians, of which this new Christian was a part, were actively doing topical, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 English and Greek word \softline
studies with their Bibles and {\u8220\'93}Englishman{\u8217\'92}s Greek Concordances.{\u8221\'94} They discovered the ASV was the most accurate \softline
translation. They initially started a study bible cross reference section for it. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Then an idea grew to do a computerized \softline
revision of the 1901 American Standard Version for the public domain, code named {\u8220\'93}ASV3{\u8221\'94}. These ideas were dropped \softline
with too many problems: the underlining Greek text, massive footnoting, archaic words, inconsistent Greek word \softline
translations, etc. A better idea grew, the creation of a modern (English) literal version (which later became the name). \softline
A group of workers, computer owners and scholars, who believe in the total authority and inspiration of the Bible, \softline
devoted time, advise, software and work for the project. Now, over 27 years later, at least 35 experts in the original \softline
language have contributed work needed to make this translation a reality. Many others, about 170, have also helped with \softline
large amounts of proofreading, English comprehension, double-checking Greek definitions, compounds, synonyms, \softline
Greek concordance look-ups, accuracy checks and/or other menial (but extremely essential) tasks. A few thousand \softline
corrections have been received via E-mail for changes, so far. We will never be able to express our gratitude enough to \softline
all of these people, living & dead.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The MLV was the first translation to use the power of the computer (8086) and would have been impossible before the \softline
computer age. This translation would have been impossible without Word Perfect (special thanks to Corel Corporation). \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 The original intentions and guidelines for the {\u8216\'91}Modern Literal Version{\u8217\'92} were:}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1. To translate the original language, word-for-word into English. Then to further boost the accuracy of the MLV, to \softline
translate the same Greek word into as few different English words as possible. We also do this for English words by not \softline
using them for different Greek words. Careful attention was paid to synonyms, antonyms and compound words. One way \softline
to look at this is: if God wanted 10 different words used instead of one single Greek word, the inspired writers would \softline
have penned it that way. The New Testament is its own best commentary when you see the same Greek word translated \softline
into the same English word throughout. We call this {\u8216\'91}uniform and consistent' translating and we believe we're the first \softline
translation to ever attempt this. This form of translation is an extremely hard task, not one that many translators would \softline
ever take the time to do, even now that it is possible with computers. More information is in the {\u8216\'91}Wording Statistics' \softline
section later.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 2. The goal of the MLV was not to make it perfect everyday English, but try to make it understandable to the majority \softline
of English speaking people, while remaining literal. Sentences in the MLV may start with conjunctions like 'and,' 'but,' \softline
'for' and {\u8216\'91}because'. This was so we could split incredible long sentences (50+ words) that were appearing as we translated \softline
into English. The Modern Literal Version is about junior high school reading level.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 3. To translate some verses that have been misinterpreted for years by many religious groups, as close as possible to the \softline
original language.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 4. To use }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 italics }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 for supplied words and use supplied words as opposed to paraphrasing. We want people to see what we \softline
added.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 5. To translate the money and measuring systems of the Bible into some understandable form. (See the Appendix.) \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 6. To use {\u8216\'91}will' for all future tenses. Though it is not proper modern English. It is the way most English people speak. \softline
{\u8216\'91}Shall' is retained in questions.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 7. To use paragraph format. Verse format take meanings out of context.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 8. To use the more proper {\u8216\'91}may' or {\u8216\'91}might' for the subjunctive mood verbs. The ASV used {\u8216\'91}should' and {\u8216\'91}shall.' Shall is \softline
not consider {\u8216\'91}conditional' in modern English, but future tense. (See more in the Appendix II section).\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 9. To arrange the Greek word order into normal English word order of subject verb object, (SVO). Following Greek word \softline
order is not more literal or accurate; if we retained the Greek order it would be more like an interlinear without the Greek.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 10. To footnote or explain in the Appendix places where a literal translation could not be understood or was an idiom \softline
used by the common Greeks. For example: {\u8216\'91}into/to the ages' is an idiom for {\u8216\'91}forever'. (These are not as common as many \softline
people would have you believe).\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 11. To render active tense verbs as {\u8216\'91}is/are verb-ing' to help show action. Many people wrongly say the {\u8216\'91}-eth' ending used \softline
in older translations meant continual action. It was simply the way they spoke before the 1800's.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 12. To fix the preposition and conjunction problems that plague all translations. Our biggest fix is the English word {\u8216\'91}for' \softline
that was used even in the ASV for several Greek words which mean {\u8216\'91}because of,' {\u8216\'91}because,' {\u8216\'91}to,' {\u8216\'91} toward,' {\u8216\'91}of,' {\u8216\'91}in/on \softline
behalf of' and a mild form of {\u8216\'91}because.' The MLV translated all Greek words that mean {\u8216\'91}because,' {\u8216\'91}because of' and {\u8216\'91}in/on \softline
behalf of' as such. The other meanings are shown by use of asterisks (*) with the two most common Greek words \softline
translated as {\u8216\'91}for' ({\u8216\'91}eis', G1520 = *for and G1063 {\u8216\'91}gar' = for*).\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 13. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 To avoid inconsistencies caused by splitting up the translators and proofreaders into groups . A typical translation \softline
may have 100 plus people but by the time you split them into 25 or more committees the number of people in one \softline
particular book might be as little as 4 and those different groups can cause stylistic and translation variations. Those who \softline
volunteer with the MLV tend to work all the way through the New Testament, so in the MLV the total per book far \softline
exceeds any committee type translation.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 14. To include a Harmony of the New Testament with AD dates, which gives a person the ability to read the Bible the \softline
way is was written or in chronological order. (Start at Mark, then go to Acts.)\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The 1987-1999 version, roughly 95% completed, was formally U.S. copyrighted and placed into the {\u8216\'91}Christian Library{\u8217\'92} \softline
in June, 1999 at http://www.ChristianLibrary.org because of needed bandwidth and limited funds \softline
http://www.ModernLiteralVersion.org was added in 2014.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 A challenge to all who think that another translation is more accurate to the original Greek than the MLV. Show us the \softline
correction needed! Please remember {\u8216\'91}thus saith the Greek{\u8217\'92} not 'my version says.' This translation needs to be judged by \softline
the Greek, not anything else!\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 In Christ,\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 G. Allen Walker, June 9, 1999.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Computer Tech for the New Testament, 1987-2012\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Revised and updated by multiple helpers from 2001-2014.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 To God is the glory. Amen.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}\page 
\pard \fs20\qj 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 [APPENDIX I]}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The primary goal is to keep the MLV free from theological concerns and traditions by translating as literally as possible \softline
while retaining modern language and readability. The {\u8216\'91}Open Translation{\u8217\'92} approach is also a great {\u8216\'91}checks & balance{\u8217\'92} \softline
system.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The Greeks wrote in present tense to give the reader the feeling of {\u8216\'91}being there{\u8217\'92} and so this translation leaves present \softline
tense unchanged.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Asterisks (*) are used for footnoting of words listed here in the Appendix.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  These are for the few instances where the \softline
English translation does not lend itself to a satisfactory meaning of the underlying Greek word. In addition to this, we \softline
also use an asterisk to denote the difference between one English word that is being used for two different Greek words \softline
(see }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Age*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  below.) This also aids word studies substantially.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 A hyphen (-) is used in those places where two English words come from one Greek word. It is of particular benefit to \softline
Greek scholars and the student who wishes, (when they are published), to cross-reference words to the MLV \softline
Concordance & Greek Lexicon.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 Italicized words }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 are words not found directly in the Greek but are implied by the context. These words are sometimes \softline
needed to help show action, tense and to expand the meaning of some words that the English does not capture. Since the \softline
MLV is literal and not {\u8216\'91}thought-for-thought{\u8217\'92}, supplied words help greatly for those phrases which are exceptionally \softline
difficult to read. By signifying these words through italics the reader has the option to disregard them if they wish to do \softline
so. The articles {\u8216\'91}a{\u8217\'92} and {\u8216\'91}an{\u8217\'92} are not found in the Greek and so are always supplied though never marked.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Paragraphs are used in this translation with no credence given to chapter or verse numbers since verse formats, chapter \softline
titles or other special formatting often takes ideas out of context, (see Mark 8:34 to 9:1 for an example of this). Double \softline
spaced paragraphs was an attempt to arrange by subject. Single spaced paragraphs are for conversations or for sub-topics. \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 We did not include subject headings as we felt this would only reflect our opinions and we do not want this in the Word \softline
of God.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Single or double quotation marks are not used in this translation because they are not found in the original language and \softline
adding them would be an area of opinion. \par
}{\plain \fs20 \cf3\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 We also do not capitalize pronouns that appear to be referring to God ({\u8216\'91}Him,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}He{\u8217\'92} etc). This is again to avoid having \softline
our opinion in the translation as the Greek does not make these distinctions.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \cf3\fs20 Red Lettering}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  or }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Bold Lettering}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  (electronic or printed edition) is used for the words of Jesus, God the Father and the \softline
Holy Spirit even in an indirect quote as in Acts 26. If you do not believe the }{\plain \fs20 \cf3\fs20 RED}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  or }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 BOLD}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  should be used in a certain \softline
area, please ignore.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Greek is participle crazy. A rather large number of participles are found in Greek sentences and it is common that a \softline
sentence contains no main verb but just participle after participle. We have added in supplied words in an effort to stay \softline
more literal and yet break these into smaller more readable English sentences..\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The curly brackets (\{\}) offer additional information. They are blue in the Red Letter edition or gray in the Bold Letter \softline
release. These contain:\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab 1. The Old Testament reference at the end of the verse}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  which may be an exact quote or a paraphrase by the \softline
inspired writer or simply the location of the historical event. Single quotes are used at the beginning and end of the actual \softline
quotes or paraphrases of such. We did not try to translate the Greek in these Old Testament quotes to match the Hebrew \softline
to English translations.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab 2. We use {\u8216\'91}\{F\}{\u8217\'92} to represent footnotes to the left of the word}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 . The reader can find the footnote itself at the end \softline
of the chapter}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .\par
}{\plain \fs20 \cf3\fs20 \tab }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 3. {\u8216\'91}Harmony of the Gospels and New Testament{\u8217\'92} is a man-made study help and combines information from the \softline
four books of Jesus{\u8217\'92} life here on the earth. (The Bible was not written in Encyclopedia format. Not all information on \softline
any subject is generally all inclusive in any one area.) Here is an example of the {\u8216\'91}Great Commission{\u8217\'92} or better {\u8216\'91}How to 
Make or Become a Disciple of Christ{\u8217\'92} and the way it is represented in the {\u8216\'91}Modern Literal Version{\u8217\'92} throughout Mark.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 \{Mk 16:15-18 & Mt 28:18-20 & Lk 24:46-47 Mountain in Galilee\}}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Here is a combination of the above passages as an example, Mark is }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 BOLD}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , Matthew is black, }{\plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 Luke is gray }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 (the \softline
punctuation was fixed to attempt to make it easier to read in English).\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 And he said to them,}{\plain \fs20 \b\cf5\fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 As you}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  are going}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  (You}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  go) into all the world and preach the good-news }{\plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 (thus it has been \softline
written, that the Christ must suffer and rise up from the dead the third day), should be preached in his name to all the \softline
nations, beginning from Jerusalem }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 to the whole creation,}{\plain \fs20 \b\cf6\fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 make disciples of all the nations.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 He who believes and is immersed, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 (immersing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy \softline
Spirit }{\plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 and that repentance and forgiveness of sins) }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 will be saved;}{\plain \fs20 \b\cf6\fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 teaching them to observe all things whatever I \softline
commanded you}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 But he who disbelieves will be condemned.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 And behold, I am with you}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  all the days, until the end of the world.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Wording & Definitions}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 (MLV Dictionary in e-Sword)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Age* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is Strong{\u8217\'92}s Dictionary number 165 (onward, we will abbreviate as G165 for electronic & book uniformity). It is \softline
very much the way we think of a person{\u8217\'92}s {\u8216\'91}age{\u8217\'92}. The other {\u8216\'91}age, ages{\u8217\'92} not marked is a period of time. This {\u8216\'91}age{\u8217\'92} is also \softline
translated as {\u8216\'91}world{\u8217\'92} context determines which word. See }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 World}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  below.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Admonish }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 means to {\u8216\'91}instruct with warning{\u8217\'92} G3560.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Ambassador*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  see Apostle below.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 And }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 from G2532 was used like we use a comma in lists.  We have kept these {\u8220\'93}and{\u8221\'94} and any other Greek words that we \softline
could even if not {\u8216\'91}English teacher approved.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Apostle }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is a transliterated word. The English equivalent would be {\u8216\'91}one sent{\u8217\'92} with the meaning of {\u8216\'91}one sent on a mission.{\u8217\'92} \softline
Apostle has been kept when speaking of Jesus{\u8217\'92} apostles. Ambassador* is the other rendering of this Greek word, G652.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Appointed*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is G5087 which literally is {\u8216\'91}placed{\u8217\'92} but we just don{\u8217\'92}t speak that way in English. The other {\u8216\'91}appointed{\u8217\'92} \softline
without the * is from compounds of G5021 which is {\u8216\'91}command or appoint.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Assuredly}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is literally {\u8216\'91}amen{\u8217\'92} which roughly means {\u8216\'91}so be it.{\u8217\'92} Jesus said this, (sometimes twice), at the beginning of His \softline
teachings. In the KJV this was translated {\u8216\'91}verily, verily{\u8217\'92}. G281.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Baptism }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 see Immersion.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Be, is, was, were, being, been}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  verbs are generally {\u8216\'91}helper words{\u8217\'92} added to other English verbs, adjectives or rarely \softline
nouns to translate some Greek verbs. When they are not {\u8216\'91}helper words{\u8217\'92} then they are from compounds of G1096 \softline
({\u8216\'91}become{\u8217\'92}), G1510 ({\u8216\'91}be, is, was...{\u8217\'92}) and sometimes but rarely G2192 ({\u8216\'91}have, hold, help{\u8217\'92}) and G5225 (denoted as be*, \softline
is*, was*, being*; exist, possess).}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Believe, belief, faith, faithful, trust}{\plain \fs20 \fs20   in verb, adjective, adverb or noun forms are some of those very few Greek words \softline
(G4100, G4102, G4103) which carry more meaning than the English equivalent. These words also}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  carry the meaning: \softline
{\u8216\'91}obey{\u8217\'92}, {\u8216\'91}had been persuaded.{\u8217\'92} The antonym of {\u8216\'91}believe{\u8217\'92} is {\u8216\'91}disobey{\u8217\'92} in the Greek language (G544). See John 3:36 for \softline
both words together.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Believe on}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  literally in the majority of all places in the New Testament means {\u8216\'91}believe upon.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Believe in}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  literally in the majority of all places in the New Testament means {\u8216\'91}believe into{\u8217\'92}. Similar expression to Mat 
28:19 {\u8216\'91}... into the name... {\u8216\'91}.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Belt}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is impossible to tell from context if it is a simple belt or a complex series of leather straps used to hold tools, \softline
weapons, money or a belt of armor. The girdle (belt) was worn across the waist or across the chest. G2223.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Between* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is an idiom for {\u8216\'91}up }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 through}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  the middle,{\u8217\'92} G3319.}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Bowels}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  are where the Greeks thought the emotions were born. This is where we get expressions such as {\u8216\'91}desires of the \softline
heart,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}gut feeling,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}nervous stomach{\u8217\'92} and so on. G4698.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Brethren}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is specifically {\u8216\'91}brothers{\u8217\'92} but used more often to describe kinfolk, whether by family ties or by the blood of \softline
Jesus. Though translated from a Greek masculine noun, G80, the word includes males and females in context.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Centurions }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 were military commanders of over 100 soldiers. They were highly esteemed individuals of society. (G2763, \softline
Latin root; G1543, Greek.)\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Charity}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  in the MLV does not mean {\u8216\'91}money.{\u8217\'92} It may include money but literally means {\u8216\'91}good, merciful or kind acts.{\u8217\'92} \softline
G1654\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Christ }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is a transliterated Greek adjective, G5547, that would translate as {\u8216\'91}anointed.{\u8217\'92} Messiah is the Hebrew translation. \softline
In the 2015 version it was rendered as {\u8216\'91}Jesus the Christ{\u8217\'92} either a title or a description depending on your view. \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Church}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , see }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Congregation* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 below.}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Class}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  (a noun) is the priestly service limited to a stated series of days. G2183.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Coming}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  (as in Second Coming), G3952, has been translated more properly as {\u8216\'91}}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 presence.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Commanders}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  were military commanders of over 1000 soldiers. G5506\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Congregation* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 was the original translation by Tyndale in the first English translation from the Greek and then later \softline
changed to 'church' by the Reformed Protestants in the Geneva Bible, a man-made word. Then perpetuated by the \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Catholic Church and Church of England until today (now because of tradition). These man-made tradition has been used \softline
over the centuries to promote a 'church' not the 'congregation' of our Lord Jesus. The word could be translated 'assembly' \softline
which Robert Young did in his translation and also the MLV at one time. In Modern English most think of "church" as \softline
a building. The original Greek word, even in the Bible, carries no special reverence. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20  It is used to describe Jews, a mob, \softline
a local congregation, and the congregation of faithful, obedience believers worldwide as in Matthew 16:18, Act 2:47, \softline
called the one body in Eph. 4:1-6, Eph 5:23 and others. Translating this Greek word as {\u8216\'91}the called out{\u8217\'92} would be like \softline
saying a {\u8216\'91}pineapple{\u8217\'92} is an {\u8216\'91}apple produced by a pine tree.{\u8217\'92} The word was in use in all Greek writings which meant some \softline
form of {\u8216\'91}leaving your home to assemble elsewhere, generally in public for town announcements.{\u8217\'92}}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  (G1577; once from \softline
its synonym G4864}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ).}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Cohort }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is a Roman military term to describe a group of 600 soldiers. G4686.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Consequently}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  though an adverb in English is used for a Greek particle, G686 & G687, consequently is not exactly \softline
{\u8216\'91}therefore{\u8217\'92} in English. It means that the previous statement is probably so or will become so.}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \tab \tab \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Container(s).}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  The bible uses Hebrew and Greek measurements like {\u8216\'91}cor{\u8217\'92} which is a measurement of volume, about \softline
90 gallons. We rendered these words as volume + the word {\u8216\'91}container{\u8217\'92} like {\u8216\'91}ninety-gallon container{\u8217\'92} vs. footnoting \softline
everyone of them; see Luke 16:7.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Covenant}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  can be translated as {\u8216\'91}agreement,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}contract,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}testament{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}will{\u8217\'92} as in the expression {\u8216\'91}last will and \softline
testament{\u8217\'92}. The underlying Greek word, G1242 and its compounds was translated uniformly as {\u8216\'91}covenant{\u8217\'92} because \softline
{\u8216\'91}testament{\u8217\'92} has no verb forms in English. It is the Old or New Testament or Covenant, or just a simple agreement, 
depending on the context. The Old Testament law was until the death of Jesus and the New Testament law is after \softline
His death, (see Hebrews 9-10 and Galatians 4:4). The entire letter to the Hebrews is dealing with why Christians are \softline
no longer bound by the laws or traditions of the Old Testament. By rights, the Gospels and the first chapter of Acts \softline
of the Apostles, are really part of the Old Covenant with God.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Cubit }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is a forearm{\u8217\'92}s length. About 20-21 inches depending of which cubit measurement was common to that area. \softline
G4083.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Dead}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is a Greek word, G5053, literally translated as {\u8216\'91}ended{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}finished.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Denarius }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is a coin of the Roman currency system which we have retained in the MLV translation. The various other \softline
denominations are given here }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 a rough comparison to Modern Day American currency.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab 1. A }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 denarius }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 was equivalent to a day's wage of the normal working class. It was a silver coin with Caesar's \softline
face on it. G1220.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab 2. Two drachmas was worth about 4 denarius, translated as {\u8216\'91}four-denarius.{\u8217\'92} G1323.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab 3. A lepton was a bronze coin, translated as {\u8216\'91}bronze-coin.{\u8217\'92} Two of these is equal to an Assarion or Quadran \softline
which are copper coins worth the cost of a dove or two sparrows, about a couple of mouthfuls of food. Assarion and \softline
Quadran are translated as {\u8216\'91}copper coin{\u8217\'92}. About 50 cents in US money. G3016.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab 4. Mina which is translated as {\u8216\'91}200 denarius coins{\u8217\'92} is a about 80% of a year's salary in modern terms. In \softline
context it probably meant a whole years wage. G3414.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab 5. Slater was a coin equal to two drachmas or four denarius, translated as {\u8216\'91}four-denarius coin.{\u8217\'92} G4715.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab 6. }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Talant }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is not a coin but about 75 pounds of silver. Equal to about 1 million dollars in US money today \softline
which is roughly 6000 denarius coins. Talant has nothing to do with the English word {\u8216\'91}talent{\u8217\'92} which was how the \softline
Greek word, G5007, was erroneously transliterated in various other translations leading to confusion and kept due to \softline
tradition. \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Devil }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 was changed to {\u8216\'91}the Slanderer{\u8217\'92} in the 2013 version back in the 2015. The Greek word is an adjective used as a \softline
noun, a transliteration of Hebrew, which has a perfect English equivalent {\u8216\'91}a slanderer.{\u8217\'92} This Greek word is where we \softline
got {\u8216\'91}diabolical.{\u8217\'92}}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The Bible even uses the Slanderer and the Adversary (previously rendered Satan) together in Rev. \softline
12:9 and 20:2.}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Different }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 as it occurs six times in the MLV is from the Greek word, G2087, which is translated as {\u8216\'91}other{\u8217\'92} or \softline
{\u8216\'91}another.{\u8217\'92} In context might mean something added as opposed to something different or opposite.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Disobedience* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is the result of a {\u8216\'91}refusal to hear{\u8217\'92} or more subtly a refusal to take in what you hear. G3876. The other \softline
disobedience (no *) is the end result of {\u8216\'91}disbelieve.{\u8217\'92} G543.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Divine*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is the only {\u8216\'91}divine{\u8217\'92} that literally comes from the base word {\u8216\'91}God.{\u8217\'92} G2304 & G2316.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Enmity }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 has lost some of its meaning in current English usage. Enmity is best described as a blend of hatred, \softline
opposition and to be an enemy. G2189.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Except*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is the improper preposition of G4133. The other {\u8216\'91}except{\u8217\'92} }{\plain \fs20 \cf7\fs20 (no *) }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is an idiom of the literal {\u8216\'91}if not{\u8217\'92} (G1508, \softline
G1487 & G3361).}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \tab \tab \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Fallen-asleep }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is from the Greek word, G2837, which is used as an expression to mean death.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 For}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is a preposition that }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 has no true Greek equivalent. {\u8216\'91}To{\u8217\'92} is the literal translation in all places in the {\u8216\'91}Modern \softline
Literal Version.{\u8217\'92} Asterisk (*) versions are below.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  All {\u8216\'91}because, because of, in or on behalf of{\u8217\'92} in the MLV are \softline
translated as such.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 For}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  represents the Greek preposition G1519 (eis), that is literally translated as {\u8216\'91}into{\u8217\'92}, {\u8216\'91}to{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}toward.{\u8217\'92} It never \softline
means {\u8216\'91}because of.{\u8217\'92} No translation has ever translated {\u8216\'91}eis{\u8217\'92} as {\u8216\'91}because of.{\u8217\'92} Sometimes to substitute {\u8216\'91}leading toward{\u8217\'92} \softline
works very well to get the meaning across and has been used by many translations in some places. This preposition \softline
expresses forward action in the Greek verb where the English word {\u8216\'91}for{\u8217\'92} can be used with verbs of actions past or 
future. All Greek words in the {\u8216\'91}Modern Literal Version{\u8217\'92} that mean 'because' are translated as 'because'.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 For}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  represents the Greek word G1063 (gar). It is a conjunction with no exact English equivalent. It is a mild form of \softline
{\u8216\'91}because.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Forgive* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is the verb form of the Greek noun translated as {\u8216\'91}favor{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}grace.{\u8217\'92} G5483\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Fornication }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is from the Greek word G4202 (pornia), which means any premarital or extramarital sexual acts \softline
between two or more people. It also means prostitution with its Greek base word meaning {\u8216\'91}sell.{\u8217\'92} It does not in \softline
anyway}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  mean lust. It means physical sex, including all variations of physical sex.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Furlong }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is 1/8 of a mile in English. But in the MLV it is from G4218 (stadium), which is 1/8 of a Roman mile 607 \softline
ft. (53 ft. less than the modern furlong). \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Gentiles }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is also translated as {\u8216\'91}nations.{\u8217\'92} The word means all nations which are not Israel or all people who are not \softline
Jews. G1484.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Gift* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is G5496, another noun form of the Greek noun, G5485, translated as {\u8216\'91}favor{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}grace.{\u8217\'92}}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Gird }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 means to put on your belt, the final act of dressing yourself for the public or for a job, (see }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Belt }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 also). G2224.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Godliness*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is literally {\u8216\'91}devoutness.{\u8217\'92} The base word is {\u8216\'91}worship{\u8217\'92} not {\u8216\'91}God.{\u8217\'92} Modern English does not use {\u8216\'91}devout{\u8217\'92} as \softline
anything necessarily }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 to do with God. G2125.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Good*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is literally {\u8216\'91}well.{\u8217\'92} G2095 & compounds. The other {\u8216\'91}good{\u8217\'92} (no *) are actually two synonyms. Good in general \softline
and good outwardly. G0018 & G2570.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Good-news }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is simply how it reads or used to mean Jesus and His teaching in general, (1Cor. 15:1-4; 2Thes. 1:8, \softline
etc.). Originally in the MLV, the Greek word was translated as {\u8216\'91}gospel{\u8217\'92} in the religious context and {\u8216\'91}good news{\u8217\'92} in \softline
other contexts but was adopted as {\u8216\'91}good-news{\u8217\'92} throughout in 2013 in order not to {\u8216\'91}commentate{\u8217\'92} in the Word. G2098.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Gracious*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is the translation of the Tyndale translation of {\u8216\'91}blessed{\u8217\'92} an adjective in all the places that would have \softline
been something along the lines of: {\u8216\'91}God }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 is}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  blessed.{\u8217\'92} (God is {\u8216\'91}fortunate{\u8217\'92} is craziness. God for sure is }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 not}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  {\u8216\'91}happy{\u8217\'92} with \softline
us.) G2128.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Harlot }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is a sexually promiscuous individual or a prostitute or both, primarily female. Context is not always certain \softline
which meaning either. (A vulgar English word does fit perfectly). G4204.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Heart}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is literally the intestines. The Greeks thought emotions were born there, in the way we often feel emotions in \softline
our gut. G4698.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Helper}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is from a Greek masculine noun, G3875, always capitalized. It is a {\u8216\'91}person called to help.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Hosanna }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is a Hebrew word meaning {\u8216\'91}Save me, I pray.{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}Please deliver me.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Immerse}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  or }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 dipping}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is a translation of the Greek verb, G0907 (baptizo), and its variations which all mean to \softline
submerge completely. Baptize, a transliterated word which has been retained by most translations. Baptism is not \softline
used in the {\u8216\'91}Modern Literal Version.{\u8217\'92} In 1999, until baptism was changed to immersion in about 2002, over 75% of \softline
the comments for revision of the Modern Literal Version from readers or visitors to the Christian Library were {\u8216\'91}make \softline
baptism immersion.{\u8217\'92} This word has a perfect English equivalent and so has been used. For a Bible definition read \softline
Romans 6:1-6. The Greek word was common to the Greeks and was used to describe a {\u8216\'91}bath,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}washing dishes,{\u8217\'92} \softline
{\u8216\'91}ceremonial washing{\u8217\'92} and {\u8216\'91}Christian baptism.{\u8217\'92} See Mark 7:4,8; other Bible passages Romans 6:1-6, Mark 16:16, \softline
Colossians 2:12-14, 1 Peter 3:21, etc. This word never meant {\u8216\'91}shower{\u8217\'92}. There is a Greek word, G4472, for \softline
{\u8216\'91}sprinkling,{\u8217\'92} G4472 (base word 'rain-o'), and it is also}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  used in the New Testament.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Iota }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 (subscript) and }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 serif}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  are the smallest punctuation or accent marks of Greek. G2503.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Irreproachable }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 can simply be}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  a person not under an accusation by an enemy or legal system but more likely a \softline
person with an extremely good reputation. G410.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Keep}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  in the MLV is one of those very few Greek words, G5083 & compounds, which carry more meaning than the \softline
English word. The word carries with it: {\u8216\'91}to guard{\u8217\'92} and/or {\u8216\'91}to watch over.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Lack* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 with an asterisk (*) is used to tell the difference between the other {\u8216\'91}lack{\u8217\'92} because the more literal meaning}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  \softline
'fall short' just doesn{\u8217\'92}t fit English well. G3007 & G5302.\ul0 \tab }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Like}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is literally {\u8216\'91}as.{\u8217\'92} Common to their language, but comes across as slang in English. G5613.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Love}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is Christian love. This word in religious writings had an intensified meaning, sacrificial love, from the same \softline
Greek spoken outside of the Bible, {\u8216\'91}love of people{\u8217\'92} or simply {\u8216\'91}like.{\u8217\'92} The Greeks had different words for different \softline
kinds of love, unlike English. This word is G25 (agapao).\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Make*, makes*, made*, making* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 are simply the rendering of G4160 (poieo), and a few of its compounds. All \softline
other renderings of {\u8216\'91}make{\u8217\'92} wording are where the word {\u8216\'91}make{\u8217\'92} is added to another English verb or noun to translate \softline
a Greek word better into English. \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 May, Might, Should }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 see }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Subjunctive Mood }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 in }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Appendix II}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Messenger}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is simply transliterated as {\u8216\'91}angel{\u8217\'92} in many translations, G32}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 . But we have opted to translate it rather than \softline
transliterate. Only context can determine if the messenger was from God or man or the Evil One. To stay with our \softline
{\u8216\'91}Modern Literal Version{\u8217\'92} guidelines, we uniformly used {\u8216\'91}messenger{\u8217\'92} starting in 2013.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Never* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 would be best rendered as {\u8216\'91}in absolutely no way!{\u8217\'92} an emphatic }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 no!}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  or }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 not!}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  but is just way too wordy to fit \softline
into most verses. When never* occurs with the subjunctive mood verb, {\u8216\'91}may never,{\u8217\'92} does not mean {\u8216\'91}will not{\u8217\'92} there is \softline
a slight possibility this could happen. This has been a Tyndale tradition replicated over and over for the past 600 \softline
years.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Obey*, obedient*, obedience*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  are G5218 & 5219. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 It is related to listening obediently to someone with authority. \softline
For example, a soldier listening to and obeying his commanding officer or children to their parents, as in: {\u8216\'91}Children, \softline
obey}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  your}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  parents.{\u8217\'92} The other {\u8216\'91}obey{\u8217\'92} words, G3980, come from the same root word as {\u8216\'91}believe{\u8217\'92} does, (see \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Believe}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ).}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Of}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  literally means {\u8216\'91}out of.{\u8217\'92} This is unique to John & 1 John. G1537.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Offend }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 and }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Offense }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 literally means to {\u8216\'91}snare{\u8217\'92}, 'stumble' or a 'cause to stumble.' G4634 & G4625.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Only begotten}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  which literally means {\u8216\'91}only born of{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}only born by{\u8217\'92} would be a contradiction in the Bible since {\u8216\'91}we \softline
are all sons of God through Christ Jesus{\u8217\'92} and Mary gave birth to multiple children. Its Greek synonym is {\u8216\'91}firstborn{\u8217\'92} \softline
which too is a contradiction since Abraham had two sons to Sarah and the {\u8216\'91}only born of{\u8217\'92} was the second son. Others \softline
have used {\u8216\'91}one and only,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}only,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}only born.{\u8217\'92} All of these are also}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  contradictions. One other translation used {\u8216\'91}only \softline
unique,{\u8217\'92} but this removes the {\u8216\'91}born{\u8217\'92} part. The way to think of this is that the physical {\u8216\'91}firstborn{\u8217\'92} had special rights or \softline
privileges. {\u8216\'91}Only special born{\u8217\'92} would then settle all instances in the New Testament and would still fit the Greek. It is \softline
the figurative {\u8216\'91}firstborn{\u8217\'92} in respect to special privileges or rights. G3439.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Pentecost }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is a transliterated word, G4005, which literal means {\u8216\'91}50th{\u8217\'92} as in the 50th day after Passover.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Pregnant}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 * is literally {\u8216\'91}swollen,{\u8217\'92} G1471, and the other {\u8216\'91}pregnant,{\u8217\'92} G1094, is {\u8216\'91}with a belly{\u8217\'92}. The Greeks just did not \softline
have a good word for pregnancy.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Quarternions}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  are companies of four soldiers and is translated as {\u8216\'91}companies of four{\u8217\'92} in Acts 12:11. G5069.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Rabbi }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 and }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Rabboni }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is teacher in the Hebrew language. G4461 & G4462.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Recognize }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is also translated as {\u8216\'91}fully know{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}know fully.{\u8217\'92} It is the reader{\u8217\'92}s choice since they are interchangeable. \softline
G1921.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Rejected*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  has more meaning and is best thought out as: {\u8216\'91}they tested it, they did not like it and so they rejected it.{\u8217\'92} \softline
G593.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Rise*, Rising*, Raise*, Raised*, Risen*, Rose*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is literally {\u8216\'91}stand up{\u8217\'92} but that poses a problem since we do not use \softline
that idiom in English. G0450.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Separate* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is from {\u8216\'91}border or boundary{\u8217\'92} which would be {\u8216\'91}border off{\u8217\'92} or the lighter meaning of {\u8216\'91}quarantine off{\u8217\'92}. The \softline
other {\u8216\'91}separate{\u8217\'92} is {\u8216\'91}make room between.{\u8217\'92} G0873.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Serve}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is the verb form of bondservant, best described as to serve in or under bondage which could be either \softline
voluntarily or not. Moses was a bondservant; (that is how he gained his wife). Bondservants were slaves or people \softline
paying off a debt and some were hired servants under a contract. The specific type of servant cannot be determined, \softline
even in context. G1398.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Should, May, Might }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 see }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Subjunctive Mood}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  in }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Appendix II}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Sound* }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is also translated as {\u8216\'91}healthy.{\u8217\'92} G5198.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Spirit}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is retained in capitalized form from the ASV. If you, as the reader, believe Spirit is not the Holy Spirit just \softline
ignore the capital {\u8216\'91}S.{\u8217\'92} All capitalization and punctuation is man made, please ignore any you feel is wrong. {\u8216\'91}The \softline
Spirit of the truth{\u8217\'92} as it occurs in the Greek 3 times in John 14-16 & maybe once in 1 John 4 could be a title, {\u8216\'91}Spirit \softline
of Truth.{\u8217\'92} G4151.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Spirit*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is literally {\u8216\'91}soul.{\u8217\'92} G5590 and its compounds occur only in Philippians 2.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Standard*}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is like a U.S. yardstick. A round straight piece of wood or metal used as a standard of measurement to \softline
measure the length or distance of something. It is used figuratively in most instances}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  of the New Testament. G2583\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Stewardship}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  means to manage the house or household or to manage the affairs of others. G3622.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Talant}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is listed under }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Denarius}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\i\fs20 Than}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  though marked as supplied, is most often a translation of a genitive Greek word when next to a comparative or \softline
superlative adjective or adverb; a Greek idiom. Example {\u8216\'91}he is greater of me{\u8217\'92} would be {\u8216\'91}he is greater }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 than}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  I.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 That}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is G3705 which is stronger than modern English {\u8216\'91}that.{\u8217\'92} A mild {\u8216\'91}in order that{\u8217\'92} not as below.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 That}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  in Greek is G2443 (hina)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , which literally means {\u8216\'91}in order that{\u8217\'92} but is just too wordy for some English \softline
sentences.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 That}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  was used to replace a Greek idiom that reads {\u8216\'91}to the to verb{\u8217\'92} (}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 G1519 (eis) + G3588 neutered (to)}{\plain \fs20 \f2\fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 + an \softline
infinitive verb). The ASV scholars had started to replace this idiom with {\u8216\'91}to the end }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 subject}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  should/may }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 verb}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8217\'92}. We \softline
did this uniformly throughout the New Testament until the 2015 version but as {\u8216\'91}to this end, }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 that subject }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 should/may \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 verb}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8217\'92} but even this is difficult to read. So now we have done the second best option by converting all of these to a \softline
subjunctive like form, {\u8216\'91}*that* }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 subject}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  should/may }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 verb}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .{\u8217\'92} *That* can be read as {\u8216\'91}in order that{\u8217\'92} if this makes more \softline
sense; same as the words above.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 The}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  occurs in Greek same as in English with one major exception, {\u8216\'91}the{\u8217\'92} is used with proper nouns. {\u8216\'91}Paul{\u8217\'92} is {\u8216\'91}the \softline
Paul.{\u8217\'92} We have tried to include all definite articles other than those with proper nouns. Many would say they should \softline
be dropped in some places but our opinion in this matter is if the inspired writers included {\u8216\'91}the{\u8217\'92} then we should put it \softline
there in English whenever possible. The inspired writers could have left {\u8216\'91}the{\u8217\'92} out in most of these questionable \softline
places and it still would have been good Greek grammar, especially in Paul{\u8217\'92}s & Luke{\u8217\'92}s writings who were fluent \softline
speaking Greeks. G3588.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Unimpeachable}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is from a Greek word, G423, that really does not go well into English. The word is only used in the \softline
qualifications of elders/overseers/pastors/shepherds in the Bible. It means someone who is not under an accusation of \softline
any kind (that is, blameless and guiltless) and has a impeccable reputation. This and {\u8216\'91}believing children{\u8217\'92} are the only \softline
two qualifications that are not learned or cannot be learned by a person who reaches to be an \softline
elder/overseer/pastor/shepherd.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 View}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  is a stronger {\u8216\'91}see{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}look.{\u8217\'92} Means to {\u8216\'91}view as a spectator{\u8217\'92} or like our expression {\u8216\'91}view from the side lines.{\u8217\'92} \softline
View is to pay more attention to what you see or look at. You can substitute {\u8216\'91}see{\u8217\'92} if it is truly awkward some verse. \softline
G2334.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Washings}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  or immersions. See }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Immerse}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Wormwood}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  may be a person or thing and an actual substance which is bitter tasting. The reader will have to decide \softline
what they believe it is in context. G894.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \b \par
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 You}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ,}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  your}{\plain \fs20 \b\super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 is plural {\u8216\'91}you{\u8217\'92} and {\u8216\'91}your{\u8217\'92}. By keeping these you will find teachings in the MLV that is lost in almost all \softline
other modern English translations.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20   We have never understood why modern translators would lose plural {\u8216\'91}you.{\u8217\'92}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \b \par
}\page 
\pard \fs28
{\plain \fs28 \b\fs28 Read the New Testament in Better Ways}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 For better understanding, read the New Testament }{\plain \fs28 \fs28 the way it should have been \softline
arranged and is closer to chronological order:\par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 Mark, Matthew, John, Luke,\par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 Acts: The Book of Conversions\par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 James, 1&2 Thessalonians, Galatians,}{\plain \fs28 \fs28  1&2 Corinthians, Romans,\par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians,}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 1&2 Peter, Jude,}{\plain \fs28 \fs28  Philemon,}{\plain \fs28 \fs28  1 Timothy, Titus, Hebrews, 2 Timothy,\par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 1-3 John, Revelation.\par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 (A }{\plain \fs28 \fs28 {\u8220\'93}Simple Reading Schedule{\u8221\'94}}{\plain \fs28 \fs28  is in Appendix II for a 2 month through the MLV.)\par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 To read the New Testament in chronological order, go to Mark chapter 1 and start \softline
reading then to Acts 1.}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 \par
}{\plain \fs28 \fs28 You should read the MLV once all the way through and do not use any other \softline
translation during this time. The MLV{\u8217\'92}s strongest feature is its uniformity of \softline
English wording & underlying Greek wording, by using another translation during \softline
this time you will not be able to learn from this uniformity as would a native \softline
Greek.}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Note: There is only one master copy so the book & computer formats agree all the time. Braces [] \softline
are used in the electronic format to help navigate and for conversions to other electronic formats. \softline
Please excuse our overzealousness to keep uniformity. There may also be other formatting issues.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 This is dedicated to God, Jesus }{\plain \fs24 \i the}{\plain \fs24  Christ, and the Holy Spirit. To who else would we \softline
dedicate it to? }{\plain \fs24 \i To Him is the glory, the power and dominion forever and ever. Amen.}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\sect \sectd \marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgnrestart\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 [APPENDIX II]}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 SIMPLE READING SCHEDULE}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 This is a simple reading schedule that is designed to be followed for 20 minutes a day over a 2 month period. Empty \softline
your mind, don't try and understand everything and don't bring your beliefs of what is says with you. Read the New \softline
Testament like a child would. This is arranged for better understanding by letting books build on each other.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Use Sundays to catch up on days you could not spend 20 minutes with the Word of God. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 If you have never read \softline
the Bible, always start with the New Testament. The New Testament is what you will be judge by, not the Old \softline
Testament.}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  Never read the Old Testament & New Testament together}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , too confusing even for the mature \softline
Christian.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Spend the first Monday reading the Preface & Appendixes to familiarize yourself with how the MLV's style of \softline
translation.\par
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Monday}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Tuesday}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Wednesday}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Thursday}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Friday}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Saturday}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Mark 1-3}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Mark 4-7}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Mark 8-11}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Mark 12-14}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Mk 15-Mt 4}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Matthew 5-8}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Matthew 9-12}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Matthew 13-16}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Matthew 17-21}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Matthew 22-25}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Mt 26-28}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 John 1-4}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 John 5-7}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 John 8-11}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 John 12-16}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 John 17-21}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Luke 1-3}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Luke 4-7}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Luke 8-10}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Luke 11-14}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Luke 15-18}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Luke 19-21}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Luke 22-24}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Acts 1-4}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Acts 5-8}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Acts 9-12}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Acts 13-16}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Acts 17-20}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Acts 21-24}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Acts 25-28}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 James 1-5}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1 & 2 Th}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Galatians 1-6}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1Cor 1-8}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1Cor 9-15}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1Cor 16 - 2Cor 6}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 2Cor 7-13}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Rom 1-5}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Rom 6-11}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Rom 12-16}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Ephesians 1-6}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Philippians 1-4}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Colossians 1-4}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1 & 2 Peter}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Jude - 1Tim 4}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1Tim 5- Heb 2}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Hebrews 3-9}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Hebrews 10-13}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1 John - 3 John}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Revelation 1-3}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Revelation 4-9}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Rev 10-14}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Rev 15-20}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft353
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx2153
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx4043
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx5877
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx7372
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx8902
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw2\brdrcf2\clcfpat8\clshdng10000\clcbpat8\cellx10342
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Rev 21-22}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard \pard \fs20\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Notes to Translators of Foreign Language Bibles\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 This translation is literal enough to the original Greek language in English that it could be used as a medium from \softline
which to translate a foreign language New Testament. Many languages of the world have no translation available.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The Modern Literal Version has been used by missionaries who do not know Greek as a basis for a Bible translation \softline
into a foreign language in which there is currently no native tongue translation available. Even though this results \softline
in a paraphrase, it is still better, more accurate and a faster way to deliver the Word of God to someone than trying \softline
to teach English. In the future we hope that Christians from that country would create their own translation from \softline
the original Greek Majority Text.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 We can supply you with a list of all the English words which occur in the Modern Literal Version. You type the \softline
equivalent {\u8216\'91}native{\u8217\'92} word next to them. We can then computer generate your {\u8216\'91}native tongue{\u8217\'92} translation. You will \softline
still need to rearrange English word order (subject verb object) to the native tongue sentence structure.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 All that is asked is that you make sure the reader knows this is a translation from the English Modern Literal \softline
Version to their language and is not directly translated from the original Greek language.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Greek History During New Testament Times\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 In the first century, the entire known world was under Roman rule and the universal language was Koine Greek \softline
(common Greek). The language became dead two centuries later (nevermore to change). Even though many have \softline
tried to make the Greek language {\u8216\'91}change{\u8217\'92} with new theologies, only translation principles have changed.\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn2736\margrsxn547\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The New Testament makes mention of three different rulers of Judea under Greek authority named Herod. Herod \softline
the Great reigned from 39 BC to 4 BC. He expanded the Temple to include the royal family{\u8217\'92}s wing. His son Herod \softline
Archelaus from 4 BC to 6 AD. Augustus judged him incompetent and reorganized the territories under the other \softline
son, Herod Antipas from 4 BC to 39 AD.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 When you were called back to Rome, you were given the {\u8216\'91}suicide{\u8217\'92} option or be killed.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Jews did not speak to Samaritans or women in public (John 4).\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The soldiers of the Roman military were also the police. If a guard lost his prisoner(s) his life was forfeited in \softline
exchange (and not a quick death) that is why many guards committed suicide (various examples in Acts.) When you \softline
were called back to Rome, you were given the 'suicide' option or to be killed.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Part of a day to the Jews, meant a whole day and night. In modern terms the Bible contradicts itself in Jesus saying \softline
he will be buried three days and three nights (Mt 12:40) but not by Jewish thinking or custom. Jesus was buried \softline
Friday (Day of Preparation; Day 1). He was in the tomb from 6:00 PM Friday to 6:00 PM Saturday (The Sabbath; \softline
Day 2). He arose sometime around dawn Sunday (the first day of the week; Day 3). The {\u8216\'91}ninth hour' in those days \softline
is 3:00 PM in modern time.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Women and bondservants under Roman rule had the same rights in court. A widow or single woman without close \softline
male family was an easy target by just about anyone who wanted to take advantage of her (James 1:27). Lydia and \softline
her group was probably like a {\u8216\'91}gang{\u8217\'92} to stay safe in Acts 16.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 MODERN LITERAL VERSION NEW TESTAMENT BIBLE ACCURACY CHART\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 In order to highlight some of the issues we have found with translation accuracy in various bibles, we have compiled \softline
a chart that compares the amount of English words translated from the Greek words. By using a random number \softline
generator we have picked some of Strong's numbers between 1 and 5624 and added G1096 the most troublesome \softline
Greek verb we know. We hope this will illustrate our faithfulness to our own guidelines in making the MLV as \softline
literal as possible:\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 1. To translate the original language, word-for-word into English. Then to further boost the accuracy of the MLV, \softline
to translate the same Greek word into as few different English words as possible. We also do this for English words \softline
by not using them for different Greek words...}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Specifically, we compare the MLV to the KJV and the NASB. This is simply because they are the only bibles that \softline
have an easily accessible English to Greek Lexicon and a Greek to English concordance that we need to compile \softline
this chart, }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 not}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  because they are {\u8216\'91}the most{\u8217\'92} inaccurate. We are almost done with a similar concordance for the MLV \softline
(God willing Jan, 2015.) A concordance is already available in E-sword.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern bibles claim to be accurate, but most do not even italicize, or otherwise highlight, }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 supplied words}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , (words \softline
that are not in the Greek, but are implied by context). The reader should be able to decide whether or not to include \softline
the words of man in the Word of God. The reader is unable to do this in any so-called {\u8216\'91}accurate{\u8217\'92} bible translation \softline
that does not highlight supplied words.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 We believe that the translators should translate the Greek into English as literally as possible (within the scope of \softline
readability) and should not}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 commentate, indoctrinate, or follow man-made tradition, that is, insert the translator's \softline
opinion on what the verse means. For example,\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 John 3:16:\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 For}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  God so loved}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  the world, that he gave his Son, the only begotten, in order that everyone }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 who believes in him 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 might not perish, but may have everlasting life. (MLV)\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8216\'91}For God loved the world in this way: He gave His One and Only Son, so that everyone who believes in Him will \softline
not perish but have everlasting life. (Holman Christian Study Bible)\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The translators of the HCSB made a conditional statement (might be saved) into a 'proof positive' statement by a \softline
simple verb tense change (will be saved) and they are not the only ones to have done this (NASB, NIV, etc.).}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 To keep the chart below simple, only one of the main base words have been kept; not the various tenses or plurals \softline
or leading verbs. (For example, BE for all of the: be, is, was, were, and being.)\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Comparison Chart of Greek Words to English Renderings}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720 
\trowd \trhdr\trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tqr\tx2970
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Strong}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Part of \softline
Speech}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 MLV 2013:}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 King James Version \softline
(KJV):}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 New American Standard (NASB):}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 }\tab 
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 New King James Version}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx9360\tx10080\tx10800\tx11520\tx12240\tx12960\tx13680\tx14400\tx15120\tx15840\tx16560\tx17280\tx18000\tx18720
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 1096}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 become, \softline
happen, \softline
come, born, \softline
be, do, \softline
have. (7)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 arise, assembled, become, \softline
befall, behave, brought, \softline
come to pass, continue, \softline
divided, draw, ended, fall, \softline
finished, follow, found, \softline
fulfilled, God forbid, \softline
grow, happen, have, kept, \softline
made, married, ordained to \softline
be, partake, pass, \softline
performed, published, \softline
require, seem, showed, \softline
soon as it was, sound, \softline
taken, turned, use, wax, \softline
will, would, wrought. (40)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 accomplished, appeared, arise, \softline
arrived, become, be, brought, been \softline
done, been made, been...came, \softline
began, behaved, come into being, \softline
carried, born, breaking}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , came, came \softline
to pass, comes to pass, dawn, \softline
decided}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , developing, done, drawing, \softline
during, elapsed, existed}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , falling, \softline
feeling, fell, finished, followed, \softline
formed, found, get, give, granted, \softline
grown}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , had, happen, join}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , made, \softline
occur, performed, prove, put, \softline
reached, realized, results, show, \softline
spent, split, spoken, starting, take \softline
place, taken, thundered}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , took place, \softline
turns, would. (60)}{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 (sorry don{\u8217\'92}t know \softline
why the *)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 against, arise, arrive, \softline
assemble, awake, be, \softline
become, behaved, born, \softline
brought, ceased, certainly, \softline
come, continued, dawn, \softline
divided, do, drawing, \softline
ended, falling, fell, finished, \softline
following, forbid, found, \softline
fulfilled, give, grow, \softline
happen, have, heard, kept, \softline
law, lived, loses, made, \softline
marry, means, occurred, \softline
offered, pass, past, \softline
performed, place, preferred, \softline
proclaimed, proved, ran, \softline
reached, revealed, rising, \softline
seemed, showed, sounded, \softline
spent, take, this, turned, \softline
vanished. (64)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 2932}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 procure. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 possess, purchase, \softline
provide, obtain. (4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx-708\tx0\tx360\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 acquire, gain, get, obtain, possess. \softline
(5)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 possess, purchased, obtain, \softline
provide (4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 69}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 watch. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 watch. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 alert, keep on the alert, keep watch. \softline
(4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 watch, watchful (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 2872}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 fatigued, \softline
labor. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 (bestow) labour, toil, be \softline
wearied. (3)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 diligently labor, grown weary, hard-working, labor, toil, weary, work \softline
hard, workers. (8)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 labor, toil, hardworking, \softline
wearied (4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 3225}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 NA (not in Strong's System)}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1803}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Noun}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 NA (a number)}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 3701}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Noun}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 vision. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 vision. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 vision. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 vision. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 618}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 taken away \softline
from, \softline
receive \softline
again, \softline
receive. (3)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 receive, take. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 receive, receive back, took...aside. \softline
(3)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \ul0 \tab }
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 receive, took (2)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 3703}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 NA (only occurs once in N.T.)}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1313}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Adjective}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 different, \softline
excellent. 
(2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 differing, divers, more \softline
excellent. (3)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 }
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 differ, more excellent, various. (3)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 }
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 excellent, differing, various \softline
(3)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Our random number kept coming up with Greek words with only 1 or 2 occurrences, so had to change \softline
a little to only adopt words with 10 or more occurrences in the New Testament, which turned out to be \softline
a lot harder than you would think.}
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl 
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 321}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 bring up, \softline
NAUTICAL: set sail. \softline
(2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 bring (again, forth, up \softline
again), depart, launch \softline
(forth), lead (up), loose, \softline
offer, sail, set forth, take \softline
up.(14?)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 bring, launched, led, put out to sea, \softline
putting out to sea, set sail, setting \softline
sail. (7)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 sail, +up, brought, sea, \softline
bring, departed, led, \softline
offered, +out. (11)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 4815}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 take, \softline
conceive, \softline
help. (3)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 catch, conceive, help, take. \softline
(4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 arrest, became pregnant, conceive, \softline
help, seized, taken. (6)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 conceive, arrested, help, \softline
seized, take, seize. (6)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1448}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 draw near. \softline
(2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 

\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 near, hand, approach, close \softline
(4)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1223}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Preposition}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 through, \softline
+3956: \softline
always, \softline
+5101: \softline
why, \softline
because of. \softline
(5)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 after, always, among, at, to \softline
avoid, because of, briefly, \softline
by, for (cause)... Fore, \softline
from, in, by occasion of, \softline
of, by reason of, for sake, \softline
that, thereby, therefore, \softline
though, throughout, to, \softline
wherefore, with, within. \softline
(24)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 account, after, afterward, always}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , \softline
because, between}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , briefly}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , charge}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , \softline
constantly, continually}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , during, \softline
forever}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , gives, means, over, \softline
presence, reason, sake, sakes, since, \softline
so then}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , so}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , therefore}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , this reason}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , \softline
this}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , though, through, through the \softline
agency, through}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , view, way, what, \softline
why, why}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 . (33)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 through, by, for, because, \softline
therefore, of, with, in, from, \softline
after, reason, always, \softline
throughout, account, all,\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 among, another, at, briefly, \softline
how, or, purpose, sakes, so, \softline
that, though, to, wait, within \softline
(29)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 314}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 read. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 read. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 read, reader. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 read, reader. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1247}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 serve. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 administer, minister, serve, \softline
use the office of a deacon. \softline
(4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 administered, administration, cared, \softline
contributing...support, do...the \softline
serving, employ...in serving, \softline
minister, ministered, ministering, \softline
servant, serve, serve as deacons, \softline
served, served as deacons, serves, \softline
services...rendered, serving, take \softline
care, wait. (19)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 minister, serve, administer, \softline
deacons, provided (6)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 5319}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 make \softline
manifest, \softline
manifest. (2)\line }
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 appear, manifestly declare, \softline
make manifest, manifest, \softline
manifest forth, shew (self). \softline
(6)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 appear, become visible, disclose, \softline
displayed, made...evident, made \softline
known, made manifest, make...clear, \softline
manifest, revealed, show. (11)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 manifest, appear, show, \softline
known, clearly, diffuses, \softline
reveal, seen, (8)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 3586}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Noun}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 wood, wood \softline
stocks, \softline
staffs, tree. \softline
(4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 staff, stocks, tree, wood. \softline
(4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 clubs, cross, stocks, tree, wood. (5)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 tree, club, woods, stocks (4)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1256}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 reason, \softline
reason with. \softline
(2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 dispute, preach, preach \softline
unto, reason, reason with, \softline
speak. (6)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 addressed, argued, carrying on a \softline
discussion, discussed, discussing, \softline
reasoned, reasoning, talking. (8)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 reason, dispute, speak (3)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 4762}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 turn. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 convert, turn again, turn \softline
back, turn again, turn self, \softline
turn self about. (6)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 converted, returned, turn, turned \softline
away, turned back, turning. (6)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 turn, turn around, turn back, \softline
converted, (4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1994 (Ironic, \softline
this is a \softline
compound of \softline
4762.)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 turn, return. \softline
(2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 come, come again, go, go \softline
again, convert, return, \softline
turn, turn about, turn \softline
again. (9)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 back, return, take back, turn, turn \softline
back, turned again, turned around, \softline
turning, turning around. (9)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 turn, turn around, return, \softline
turn back, converted, go (6)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 3319}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Adjective}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 in the \softline
middle, in \softline
the midst. \softline
(2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 among, X before them, \softline
between, + forth, mid(-day, -night), midst, way. \softline
(8?)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 among, before}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , between, center, \softline
forward}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , midday}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , middle, \softline
midnight}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , midst, two, way, within}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 . \softline
(12)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 midst, among, middle, \softline
midnight, way, between, \softline
center, forward, here, \softline
midday. (10)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 268}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Noun}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 sinner. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 sinful, sinner. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 sinful, sinner. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 sinner, sinful (3)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 5368}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Verb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 love, kiss. \softline
(2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 kiss, love. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 kiss, love. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 love, kiss. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 4750}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Noun}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 mouth, \softline
edge. (2)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 edge, face, mouth. (3)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 edge, face, lips, mouth, say}{\plain \fs20 \super\fs20 *}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , \softline
testimony, utterance, voice, words. \softline
(9)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 mouth, face, edge, say, \softline
spoken (5)\par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 

\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1432}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Adverb}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 freely. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 without a cause, freely, for \softline
naught, in vain. (4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134\tx2268 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 freely. (1)}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 freely, free, cause, vain (4)}
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\trowd \trql\trleft-7
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx1253
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx2063
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx3053
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx5213
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx8183
\clbrdrt\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrl\brdrdash\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw16\brdrcf2\cellx10433
\tqr\tx2970
\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 TOTALS}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 24 words}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 49 \softline
renderings \softline
+ 5 for \softline
error. 54 \softline
renderings.}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\tx0\tx1134 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 150 renderings}
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 214 renderings}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \ul0 \tab }
\cell \pard \intbl \pard \fs20\intbl \ql\fi0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 192 renderings (this may \softline
be a little high due to the \softline
fact a computer without \softline
human editing did the \softline
stats.)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 }
\cell \pard \intbl \row
\pard {\info}
{\info}
{\info}
{\info}
\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Note}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 : because the MLV concordance is not a finished work we have added a 10% error to the final MLV total.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \tab \tab \tab \line If you have any other translation information to add to this chart please send it along to the email address below.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Conclusion:}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The King James Version uses almost 3 times as many words or phrases for the corresponding Greek words than \softline
the Modern Literal Version does and the New American Standard Bible 1995 uses over 4 times as many. The New \softline
King James Version falls in between them. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 As literal as the King James Version was, Jay P. Green Sr. in his revision \softline
of the Englishman{\u8217\'92}s Concordance showed the English word {\u8216\'91}will{\u8217\'92} (not future tense) was used for 69 different Greek \softline
words.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  So the Modern Literal Version does meet its claim to be the 'world's most accurate bible translation.'\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The MLV is NOT under the control of any denomination or publishing company and is not the current work of any \softline
either. Remember the MLV is OPEN TO ALL who have {\u8216\'91}thus saith the Greek{\u8217\'92} fixes. Submit them to create an even \softline
more accurate MLV. Anyone who wants to help in various others ways is always welcome. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 To volunteer or to send \softline
corrections for the Modern Literal Version, please contact one of us at: mlvbible (at) gmail (dot) com}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Copyright 2012. Freely copy & distribute the section named {\u8220\'93}Modern Literal Version New Testament Bible \softline
Accuracy Chart}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8221\'94}}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  to everyone in its entirety.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \line }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ----\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 KJV & NASB stats were from concordances.org. MLV stats are from the prep work of the {\u8220\'93}Koine Greek \softline
Textbook.{\u8221\'94}}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  NKJV stats were from Accordance 10 Software.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 OTHER DISCUSSIONS\par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 BY (and {\u8216\'91}under') is the literal translation of the Greek word G5229. All other {\u8216\'91}by' are just substitutions because \softline
the pure English translation just does not really conform to normal English. Most of the previous ones in the \softline
MLV (before we fixed them) were primarily {\u8216\'91}through' ({\u8216\'91}dia' G1223) which is now down to 3 or {\u8216\'91}from' or {\u8216\'91}out \softline
of' ({\u8216\'91}ek' G1537) now down to 6 different words or the literal {\u8216\'91}in' ({\u8216\'91}en' G1722) unknown number are left. \softline
Interesting fact from this, is {\u8216\'91}by faith' or {\u8216\'91}by the faith' was never truly literal (oh well the Th.D.'s will have to \softline
adjust).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Subjunctive Mood}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  verbs {\u8216\'91}}{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 usually state a thing as conditional, possible (but not accomplished) or something 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn2736\margrsxn547\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 merely entertained as a thought. It may be a statement viewed emotionally, as desired, doubted, or wished.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8217\'92} \softline
(Roberts Grammar, pg. 130.) Subjunctive mood verbs have always been a problem in translations in the past \softline
600 years and have plagued the MLV as well. These verbs are denoted by the words {\u8216\'91}should, may or might{\u8217\'92} and \softline
are added in front of them. These subjunctive mood verbs in Greek are most often preceded by a {\u8216\'91}conditional \softline
particle{\u8217\'92} or some other part of speech (see G302, G1437, G1437a, G1875, G2579, G3752). These conditional \softline
statements, when translated into English, begin with words like {\u8216\'91}if, whoever, whatever, whenever{\u8217\'92} and the \softline
{\u8216\'91}should, may or might{\u8217\'92} is usually dropped, (too wordy and confusing for modern English). Some of these \softline
conditional statements are denoted at the beginning with {\u8216\'91}*that{\u8217\'92} (G3705), {\u8216\'91}that*{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}in order that{\u8217\'92}(G2443). We \softline
have translated all of these in places like Mark 4:27 for the sake of remaining as literal as possible even though \softline
modern English would abbreviate the sentence down to only the first {\u8216\'91}should{\u8217\'92}.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 In Greek translation, places where subjunctive mood verbs occur with G3661 are generally changed to \softline
imperative mood (this determined by context). An example of this is the ending of Mark 5:7 where the demon is \softline
speaking to Jesus and says: {\u8216\'91}Do not torment me{\u8217\'92} where subjunctive mood would be meaningless: {\u8216\'91}You may not \softline
torment me.{\u8217\'92} Even though a conditional statement does carry a future tense feeling, the improper use of {\u8216\'91}shall{\u8217\'92} \softline
and {\u8216\'91}will{\u8217\'92} was dropped. ({\u8216\'91}Shall{\u8217\'92} is Old English present tense of {\u8216\'91}should{\u8217\'92} as well as first person future tense; a \softline
current 13 year old has no idea about {\u8216\'91}shall{\u8217\'92} meaning {\u8216\'91}should.{\u8217\'92}) Even though, {\u8216\'91}may never{\u8217\'92} and {\u8216\'91}should we \softline
give?{\u8217\'92} might sound better as {\u8216\'91}will never{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}shall we give?{\u8217\'92} we opted to keep subjunctive mood as such as \softline
opposed to making them future tense. {\u8216\'91}Will{\u8217\'92} in modern language, even though {\u8216\'91}it has not happened,{\u8217\'92} is \softline
frequently thought of as}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  {\u8216\'91}is absolutely going to take place,{\u8217\'92} which would be incorrect in most places. The \softline
inspired writers could have use future tense if that was what they meant.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 TRADITIONS AND SELLING BIBLES}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 We are not here to serve the god of Money. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 We have removed many traditional or transliterated words by \softline
translating them unless they are {\u8216\'91}thus saith the Greek{\u8217\'92} such }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 words as: angel, baptism, baptize, baptist, blessed, \softline
church, doctrine, gospel, saint, and satan.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  We have not followed traditional translations unless they too are {\u8216\'91}thus \softline
saith the Greek.{\u8217\'92} We will}{\plain \fs20 \b\i\fs20  not}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 be putting them back in for Money{\u8217\'92}s sake.  People need to learn about what God \softline
really said and pitch out tradition.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 TALKING TO OTHERS ABOUT THE MLV\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 One of the best ways to describe the "Modern Literal Version" New Testament translation is that it is the }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  to \softline
adopt many significant translation principles:\line \line 1. It was the }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  translation to use the power of modern computers. All the way back in 1987.\line 2. The MLV was the }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  to attempt to keep Greek uniformity. (Same Greek word translation into the same English \softline
word(s) whenever possible.)\line 3. The MLV was the }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  and }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 only}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  to attempt to keep English uniformity. In other words keeping one specific \softline
English word to represent only one specific Greek word or one of its meanings. (The worst example probably is \softline
the word {\u8216\'91}}{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 will}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8217\'92} which is the translation of 69 different Greek words in the KJV.)\line 4. The }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  translation that has no contradictions. This is why the MLV was started in the first place because of the \softline
Mt 5:17 (abolish) vs. Eph 2:15 (abolish) one found in most modern translations; same English word used for 2 \softline
different Greek words. Jesus came to not tear down the old law but to fulfil it, and then abolished it with his dead \softline
on the cross and the 'New Covenant.'\line }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 5. The MLV was the }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  bible translation to be open on the internet for anyone to submit corrections, updates or \softline
help, since 1998 and the }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 only }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 published translation to stay open with yearly and web updates.\line 6. The MLV is the }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  to be done by a group of people not divided among committees which instantly creates \softline
inconsistent translations. This means some books in the MLV may have had 40 or more people look over them for \softline
Greek or English problems. No other translation has had this kind of manpower devoted to it!\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 7. The MLV is the }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 and }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 only}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  translation to ever deal with the word {\u8216\'91}for{\u8217\'92}, by translating all the {\u8216\'91}for{\u8217\'92} conjunctions \softline
as {\u8216\'91}because.{\u8217\'92}\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \line Other uncommon translation principles that set us apart:\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \line A. You* (plural) vs. You (singular). A lot of teachings are lost because there is no way to know who is being \softline
addressed, a crowd or an individual. \line B. The {\u8216\'91}Checks & balance system{\u8217\'92} of being an {\u8216\'91}Open Translation{\u8217\'92} with the possibility of over a million people \softline
watching has kept the MLV pure from denominational or theological slants. No one has ever submitted \softline
{\u8216\'91}indoctrinations{\u8217\'92} because they know the next person will just take them out. \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 C. 12-13 year old reading level.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 D. All wording is Modern English, all words can be looked up on dictionary.com or in a regular dictionary book.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 E. You have the ability to read the New Testament in chronological order; start in Mark and continue. \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 F. The MLV translates the transliterated words which still plague translations by being repeated over and over \softline
because of tradition, for example {\u8216\'91}Satan{\u8217\'92} is {\u8216\'91}The Adversary{\u8217\'92} and {\u8216\'91}angel{\u8217\'92} is now {\u8216\'91}messenger{\u8217\'92} (a serious issue because \softline
people didn't know 'messenger' and 'angel' are from the same Greek word), etc.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 G. This is probably the best translation anyone could use if studying Greek, because of its uniformity.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 H. The MLV is literal (word-for-word) translation the other translation styles use paraphrase primarily. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Literal is \softline
{\u8216\'91}God says' and paraphrase is {\u8216\'91}The translators interprets what God said for you.' }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \line \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 KOINE GREEK TEXTBOOK (Offshoot of the MLV)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 A Greek Lexicon created during the production of the {\u8220\'93}Modern Literal Version{\u8221\'94} with an English concordance, \softline
Greek concordance and analytical Greek concordance with some dictionary like additions is pending U.S. \softline
copyright so it can be distributed without chance of some publishing company {\u8216\'91}making it their own.{\u8217\'92} \par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Once the copyright is acquired, the e-Sword version will have the ability to click almost any word in the MLV \softline
and the lexicon, concordance and dictionary sections will appear in the dictionary window. This will be a }{\plain \fs20 \i\fs20 first}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  \softline
NO other translation has ever achieved!  A mediocre attempt at this is in the e-Sword "MLV Dictionary, \softline
Concordance & Lexicon (MLVDC+G)" add-on for the "Modern Literal Version".\par
}\pard \fs20\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn540\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 CONSTANTLY CHANGING VERSES OR WORDING THROUGH THE YEARS}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Mt 1:1 - {\u8216\'91}lineage,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}generation,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}birth,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}birth records,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}genealogy,{\u8217\'92} (G1078).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Jn 3:16 - {\u8216\'91}should,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}may,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}might.{\u8217\'92} Subjunctive mood .\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Acts 2:38 - {\u8216\'91}*for,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}into,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}leading to,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}leading toward.{\u8217\'92} This is due to the fact no one reads the Appendix like \softline
they should. People who are defending Acts 2:38 keep wanting something beside {\u8216\'91}for.{\u8217\'92} Which was never the \softline
translation in the MLV; see list above. {\u8216\'91}For{\u8217\'92} in English can mean {\u8216\'91}because{\u8217\'92} but this word is {\u8216\'91}eis{\u8217\'92} (G1519). No \softline
translation has ever used {\u8216\'91}because{\u8217\'92} or {\u8216\'91}because of{\u8217\'92} in Acts 2:38, including the ones made by the Baptist \softline
denomination.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1 Cor 9:26 - {\u8216\'91}boxing,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}fighting,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}warring,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}battling,{\u8217\'92} (G4439) and {\u8216\'91}punching,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}beating,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}whipping,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}slapping \softline
at,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}whipping at,{\u8217\'92} (G1194).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Ph 2:6 - {\u8216\'91}award,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}prize,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}robbery,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}seizure,{\u8217\'92} (G725).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Heb 3:17 - {\u8216\'91}dead-bodies,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}carcasses,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}corpses,{\u8217\'92} (G2966).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 James 1:25 {\u8216\'91}complete,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}finished,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}perfect,{\u8217\'92} (G5046).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1 Pet 3:21 {\u8216\'91}demand,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}interrogation,{\u8217\'92} {\u8216\'91}pledge,{\u8217\'92} (G1906).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 'Congregation*' originally {\u8216\'91}church{\u8217\'92} was also {\u8216\'91}assembly{\u8217\'92} for years, (G1577).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8216\'91}Comfort{\u8217\'92} and {\u8216\'91}encourage{\u8217\'92} are the same Greek word and often vary back and forth in verses, (G3870).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8216\'91}Devil{\u8217\'92} to {\u8216\'91}Slanderer{\u8217\'92} and changed back again. {\u8216\'91}Slanderer{\u8217\'92} is the translation of Devil. G1228.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8216\'91}Out of{\u8217\'92} and {\u8216\'91}from{\u8217\'92} when from the Greek preposition {\u8216\'91}ek{\u8217\'92} (G1537). This is changed often.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8216\'91}Satan{\u8217\'92} to {\u8216\'91}Adversary{\u8217\'92} and changed back again. Adversary is the translation of Satan, (G4567).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8216\'91}To{\u8217\'92} and {\u8216\'91}toward{\u8217\'92} changed back and forth; (same Greek wording or case). Usually G1519 or G4314.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8216\'91}Select, prefer, elect, choose{\u8217\'92} changed back and forth, (G142 and G143).\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 WORKING FOR UK ENGLISH DICTIONARY}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 These are the UK spellings of some American words: allegorised apostatise armour axe counseled dishonour \softline
dishonoured flavourless honour labour longsuffering neighbour offence recognise travelling worshipping}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .\par
}\pard \fs20\tx8\tx1141\tx2275\tx3409\tx4543\tx5677\tx6811\tx7945\tx9079
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn2736\margrsxn547\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 It might also disturb British and Commonwealth nationals the strange American way of leaving punctuation \softline
inside quotation marks, like so: \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 {\u8220\'93}This just isn{\u8217\'92}t right.{\u8221\'94}  When you were expecting:  {\u8220\'93}This is the way to do it{\u8221\'94}.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 THE MODERN LITERAL VERSION WORDING STATISTICS}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 (According to Corel Paradox 11/2014.)\par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 http://www.ChristianLibrary.org/bibles/bs (Web search engine for the MLV)\par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The English language has 450,000 base words of which could be used to translate the 5401 Greek words of which \softline
make up the Greek New Testament. About 630 Bible Greek words actually have more than one meaning even after \softline
careful consideration of which English word to substitute; the context determines which meaning is used. Of the \softline
5401 different Greek words, 1877 only occur once, 589 are proper names, 1450 are compounds of two words that \softline
should be translated the same or very similarly as if the two words were not in compound or contracted form. }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 No \softline
language can be treated purely like a math equation but the MLV tried.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The English words used in the Modern Literal Version total }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 6340 unique words including tenses, plurals, etc.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 The following list requires a Greek Interlinear to look up the corresponding Greek word. (H) denotes the word is \softline
a Helper word which is used to express tense, mood, direction, intensity, person and such. (WG) is a Word Group, \softline
one base word and 1 or more of its compounds. (1,2,3, etc) is just the number of Greek words this English word \softline
renders. Ones in BOLD have no Greek counterpart (just Helper words). Even with 450,000 English words, English \softline
just doesn{\u8217\'92}t have enough synonyms for everyone of the 5401 Greek words. (Sorry, this list is not finished with all \softline
the explanations, i.e. (... ) sections.)\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 PRONOUNS: he, her, herself, him, himself, his, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 I, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 it, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 its, itself, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 me, mine, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 my, myself, one, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 one's, ones, oneself, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 our, \softline
ours, ourselves, own, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 same}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , she, that, their, theirs, them, themselves, these, they, this, those, us, we, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 what, whatever, \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 which, whichever, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 who, whoever, whom, whomever, whose, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 you, your, yours, yourself, yourselves. (This are helper \softline
words and about 3 actual Greek words used commonly as pronouns.)\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 MONEY & MEASURING: container, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 containers, coin, coins,}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  copper-coin, copper-coins, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 denarius, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 four-denarius, \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 money}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 .\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 a}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  (ALWAYS SUPPLIED}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ), about (3), after (5, H), again (1, H), against (2WG, H), all (2-WG), along, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 among (1WG, \softline
1, H), }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 an}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  (ALWAYS SUPPLIED), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 and (1WG, 1, H), any (1, H), anyone (1WG, 1}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ), anything}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  (1WG, 1), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 as (1WG, \softline
H), at (2WG, H}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 away (2WG, H), back (1, H), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 be (am, been, being, is, was, were; 3WG, H), bear(-s, bore), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 because \softline
(3, 2WG), before (1WG, 9, H)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 birds (2), birth (2WG), born (2WG}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 both (2), bring (bringing, brings, brought;}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  \softline
2WG, 2), but (2), by (1 Lit., 4 substitutes), call (called, calling, calls, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 2WG), centurion (centurions; }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 1 Latin & 1 \softline
Greek), come (came, comes, coming; 3, 4WG), died (3WG), do (did, doing, done; 1WG, 2, H}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ), donkey (1WG, 1), \softline
draw (drawing, drawn, draws, drew; 3), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 drink (drinks), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 down, each, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 eat (eats, eaten 1WG, 1), either, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 end, enter \softline
(entered, entering, enters; 1WG, 1), even, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ever, every, everything, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 feed (fed), feet (foot), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 fill (filled, filling), first, \softline
fish, food, four, from, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 fruit (fruits), full, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 here, for (without *asterisks*), }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 forth (H)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , forward, from, fully}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ,}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  further (H)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 go (goes, going, gone, went}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ; 1, 6 WG), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 goat (-s, 2)gives-birth, giving (2), great, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 have (had, has, having, H, 2WG),}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  \softline
here (2WG, 1), how (2WG, 1), indeed (2, {\u8216\'91}if indeed{\u8217\'92}, indeed), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 if, in, into, leave ( leaving; }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 2), lee (2), left, life (3), \softline
let (2?, H), little, lord (1 WG Greek & 1 Aramaic}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ), lot (-s),}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  meet (met, 2WG), }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 make (made}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 , makes; making, H), \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 many, }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 may (H), }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 might (H)}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 ,}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 more, most, much, mute (2), near, neither, never, no, nowhere, nor, not, now, of, off, \softline
on, one (1WG, Pronoun), or, order (1, 1WG), onto (2), out, over, pass (passed, passing}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 permit, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 present, put, rain \softline
(rains), recline (reclined, reclines, reclining}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ; 2WG), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 room (3), same, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 sandals (2),}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  side (H),}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  slept, sold (2), of, off, \softline
on, once, or, out, over, }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 shall}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  (H)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 side, son (3), spent, take, than, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 the, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 then}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , there (1, 1WG, H)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ,}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 thing (-s, H),}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  \softline
through, time, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 to, }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 together (H)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , toward, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 tree, trees, times}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  (MULTIPLY), under, until (3), }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 utterly (H), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 up, upon, \softline
}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 very}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  (H)}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 , what, whatever, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 well (1 WG, 1), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 when, whenever, where}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 ,}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  which, whichever, why, }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 will (a verb tense; 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 would}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20  (H))}{\plain \fs20 \fs20  with, without, }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 womb (3), }{\plain \fs20 \fs20 yet}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 . }{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 [Denoted in E-sword by a ~, tilde.]}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 English words that come from related Greek words or compounds or synonyms about 1763 words, [Denoted \softline
in E-sword by a ^, caret.]:}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Adversary, Alexandria, Antioch, Asia, Athens, Augustus, Berea, Canaan, Christ, Christs, Creator, Cyprus, Cyrene, \softline
Derbe, Elderly, Galatia, Gentile, God, Greek, Hebrew, Holy, Jerusalem, Jew, Jewess, Jewish, Jews, Jonah, Joshua, \softline
Judah, Justice, Latin, Levi, Lord's, Nazarene, Preparation, Rahab, Sabbath, Sabbaths, Samaria, Samaritan, \softline
Samaritans, Saul, Savior, Sidon, Simon, Tarsus, Tyre, Zeus, abide, abides, able, abode, abound, abounded, \softline
abounding, abounds, above, abroad, abundance, accept, acceptable, accepted, accepting, accepts, accomplish, \softline
accomplished, accomplishing, according, account, accumulated, accurately, accusation, accusations, accuse, \softline
accused, accusing, add, addressed, adds, adultery, adversaries, adverse, afar, affection, affectionate, affections, \softline
agreement, alive, alone, also, altar, although, always, amazed, ambassador, ambassadors, ambition, anger, anguish, \softline
anoint, anointed, anointing, another, answer, answers, anxieties, anxiety, anxious, anymore, apostles, appear, \softline
appearance, appeared, appearing, appears, appointed, approve, approved, approving, armies, army, arose, around, \softline
arouse, aroused, ashamed, ask, asked, asking, asks, assigned, ate, atonement, attached, attempted, authority, avenge, \softline
avenged, avenging, avoid, avoiding, awakening, barley, basket, baskets, bath, bathe, bathed, beast, beasts, beautiful, \softline
became-useless, becoming-powerful, beforehand, beg, began, begged, begging, beginning, begun, behind, believing, \softline
beneficial, besides, betrothed, better, beyond, bind, binding, binds, bird, birth, bitter, blackness, blameless, blessed, \softline
blessing, blessings, block, block, blood, boast, boasted, boasting, bodily, body, bond-servant, bond-servants, bond, \softline
bondage, bondservant, bondservants, book, books, boosts, borders, bought, bound, bow, bowed, bowing, braided, \softline
braiding, branch, branches, brass, break, breaking, breath, breathed, breathing, brethren, bridle, bright, brimstone, \softline
broke, broken, brood, build, building, built, burden, burdened, burdensome, burial, buried, burn, burned, burning, \softline
burnt, burst, bursts, bury, burying, busybodies, buy, buying, calculate, calf, camped, camping, cannot, captive, \softline
captives, captivity, captured, care, cared, carousing, carpenter, carried, carries, carry, carrying, cast, casting, casts, \softline
catch, catching, caught, cause, cease, certainty, chance, change, changed, cheerful, chief, child, childbearing, \softline
children, choke, choked, choking, choose, choosing, chose, chosen, circumcise, circumcised, circumcising, \softline
circumcision, citizen, citizens, citizenship, city, clean, cleanness, cleanse, cleansed, cleansing, cliff, close, clothe, \softline
clothed, clothing, cloud, coil, coiled, cold, collector, come-here, comfort, comforted, command, commanded, \softline
commanded, commanding, commandment, commandments, commands, commit, committed, committing, common, \softline
complete, completed, completely, conceit, condemn, condemnation, condemned, condemning, condemns, conduct, \softline
confess, confessed, confesses, confessing, confidence, confirm, confirmed, confirming, congregation*, \softline
consequently, consolation, consume, consumed, consuming, contemplating, contended, contending, contends, \softline
content, conversed, conviction, convulsed, convulses, convulsing, corrupt, corrupted, corruption, corrupts, cost, cot, \softline
council, counsel, counseled, counselor, countenance, courage, court, courts, covenant, covenant, covenanted, cover, \softline
covered, coveting, cowardly, craft, create, created, cried, cries, crime, crowd, crowds, crucified, crucify, crucifying, \softline
cry, crying, cured, current, curse, cursed, cursing, custom, customs, cut, cutting, daily, dance, danced, dancing, \softline
daring, dark, darkened, darkness, daughter, dawn, day, dead, deadly, deadness, death, debate, debated, debating, \softline
debt, debtor, debtors, debts, decay, deceive, deceived, deceives, deceiving, decided, declare, declared, declaring, \softline
decree, decrees, deem, deemed, deep, defense, deficit, defile, defiled, defilement, deliberations, delight, demon, \softline
demons, denied, denies, deny, denying, depart, departed, departs, depth, describe, described, describes, describing, \softline
desire, desolate, despise, destroy, destroyed, destroyer, detestable, devout, die, different, difficult, difficulty, \softline
diligent, diligently, dipped, disciple, disciples, discipline, disciplined, disciplines, disciplining, disease, diseased, \softline
dishonor, dishonored, disobedient, disorderly, dissension, dissensions, dissolve, distinction, disturbance, disturbed, \softline
disturbing, divide, divided, division, divorce, divorced, divorces, doing, dominion, dominions, downward, drag, \softline
dragged, drank, dress, dressed, dried, drinking, dropsy, drove, drowned, drunk, drunkard, drunken, drunkenness, \softline
dry, dwell, dwelling, dwells, dwelt, ear, early-morning, eating, eats, eighteen, eighth, elder, elderly, elderly, elders, \softline
embraced, emerald, empowered, emptied, empty, enough, enriched, enslave, enslaved, entirely, entombed, entrust, \softline
entrusted, equal, equality, equally, escape, escaped, escapes, establish, established, establishing, eunuch, eunuchs, \softline
even-more, evening, everywhere, evident, evil, exalted, example, exchange, exchanged, exercise, exercised, exile, \softline
exiled, expectation, expired, extremely, eye, eye, eyes, eyewitness, eyewitnesses, face, fail, faith, fall, fallen, falling, \softline
falls, false, false, falsely, fame, far, farther, fashion, fashioning, father, fathers, fattened, fear, fearful, fears, fed, fell, \softline
fellow, fellowship, fiery, fifty, fig, fight, figs, figure, fills, filth, filthy, fine-linen, finish, finished, finishing, fire, \softline
firmness, five, flashed, flashes, flashing, fled, flesh, fleshly, flock, flood, flooded, flow, flowing, foaming, foams, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn2736\margrsxn547\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 follow, followed, following, fool, foolish, foolishness, forbid, forbidding, forbids, forefathers, foreigner, foreigners, \softline
foremost, forfeiture, forgotten, form, formed, fornication, fortunate, forty, found, foundation, four, fourteen, \softline
fourteenth, framed, free, fulfill, fulfilled, fulfillment, fully-professed, gain, garment, garments, gate, gates, gather, \softline
gathered, gathering, gathers, gave-rest, gave-thanks, gave, genealogies, genealogy, gentiles, gentle, gentleness, gift, \softline
gird, girded, give-rest, give, given-rest, given, gives, giving, gladly, glorified, glorious, glory, gnashing, gold, good, \softline
good-news, good-repute, good, governor, governors, grab, grabbed, grain, grew, groan, groaned, groaning, groans, \softline
grounded, grow, growing, grown, grows, growth, guard, guarded, guarding, guards, guide, hair, half, hand, hands, \softline
hanging, hangs, harden, hardened, hardness, head, heal, healed, healing, healing, heals, healthy, hear, heard, hearing, \softline
hears, heart, hearts, heat, heaven, heavenly, height, heir, heirs, held, hell, help, helped, helping, helps, hence, \softline
henceforth, hewn, hid, hidden, hide, high, hire, hired, hold, holding, holds, holiness, holy, home, honor, honored, \softline
honoring, honors, hope, hoped, hopes, hoping, hospitable, hour, house, household, houses, human, humble, hundred, \softline
hung, hungry, husband, husbands, hyacinth, hymn, hymns, hypocrisy, hypocrite, hypocrites, idle, idol, idols, \softline
ignorance, illumination, imitators, implore, impossible, incense, increase, increased, increases, increasing, indecent, \softline
infant, infants, inferior, inheritance, insanity, inscription, inside, instead, insulted, intend, intended, intending, \softline
intense, intensely, interceding, interval, invite, invited, iron, jealous, jealousies, jealousy, join, joined, joining, joint, \softline
journey, joy, judge, judged, judges, judging, judgment, judgments, just-as, just, keep, keeping, keeps, kept, kind, \softline
kindliness, kindness, king, kiss, knew, know, knowing, knowledge, known, knows, labor, lack, laid, lamb, lambs, \softline
lamp, lamps, language, languages, later, law, lawgiver, lay, laying, lays, lead, leader, leaders, leading, leads, leaped, \softline
leaping, learn, least, leaven, led, lend, lenient, less, lest, letter, lie, lied, lies, lift, lifted, lifting, lifts, light, like, \softline
likeness, listen, listening, lit, live, lived, living, load, lock, locked, locking, lodge, lodged, lodging, long-ago, long, \softline
longed, longer, longing, look, looked, looking, lordship, love, loved, lover, lovers, loves, loving, lust, lusts, lying, \softline
lying, mad, made, maggot, maggots, magnificent, majesty, make-ready, malicious, man, manifest, manifestation, \softline
manifested, mankind, marriage, marry, marvel, marveled, marveling, marvelous, mature, matured, meal, measure, \softline
measured, measures, measuring, meditate, men, merchandise, merchant, mercy, messengers, middle, mighty, mill, \softline
mind-set, mind, minds, mingled, miserable, mislead, misleader, misleading, mistreat, mistreated, mix, mixed, \softline
mocking, molded, money-lover, money-lovers, month, months, morning, mother, mothers, mounted, mourn, \softline
mourned, mourning, moved, murder, murdered, murderer, murderers, murders, murmur, murmured, murmuring, \softline
murmurings, naked, name's, name, named, natural, necessary, need, needs, needy, net, new, next-day, night, noise, \softline
nothing, nourish, nourished, nourishes, nourishment, number, numbered, oath, obedient, obedient, obey, obeyed, \softline
observe, observed, observing, obtain, obtained, obtaining, offer, offered, offering, offers, offspring, old, olive, once, \softline
only, open, opened, opening, openly, opens, opportunity, opposite, opposition, oppositions, other, others, otherwise, \softline
ought, outcry, outside, outward, overshadowing, overtake, overtaken, pained, paralytic, paralyzed, parents, part, \softline
partake, partakers, partakes, partiality, partner, partners, partook, parts, passion, passions, past, patience, pattern, \softline
peace, people, peoples, perceive, perceived, perceiving, perception, perfect, perfected, perfecting, perfection, \softline
perfume, peril, perish, perplexed, persevered, persuade, persuaded, persuading, persuasive, pervert, perverted, \softline
pierced, pile, place, place, place, placed, places, places, placing, placing, plant, pleading, please, pleased, pleasing, \softline
plot, plotting, pluck, plunder, pondered, pondering, poor, possessions, potter, poured, pouring, power, powerful, \softline
powerless, practice, practiced, practices, practicing, praise, praised, praising, pray, prayed, prayer, praying, prays, \softline
preach, preached, preaching, precious, prepare, prepared, preparing, present, press, pressed, pressing, prevail, \softline
prevailed, prevails, preventing, price, priests, priest, priesthood, priests, prime, prison, prisoner, prisoners, prisons, \softline
prize, proclaim, proclaimed, proclaiming, proconsul, proconsuls, produce, produced, produces, producing, profane, \softline
profit, profited, profits, progress, promise, promised, promises, promising, proof, proper, prophesies, prophet, \softline
prophets, prosperity, proving, pulled, punish, punished, punishing, punishment, purity, purple, purpose, purposed, \softline
pursue, pursued, pursuing, puts, putting, quarrel, quarreled, quarreling, quarrels, quick, quickly, quiet, quietness, \softline
rained, ran, reach, reached, reaching, read, readiness, reading, reads, ready, rear, reared, reason, reasoned, \softline
reasoning, receive, received, receives, receiving, recognized, reconcile, reconciled, reconciling, redemption, region, \softline
regions, reign, rejoice, rejoiced, rejoices, rejoicing, relative, relatives, religion, religious, remain, remained, \softline
remaining, remains, remember, remembered, remembering, remembers, remembrance, remind, reminded, reminder, \softline
reminding, remnant, renew, renewed, repaid, repay, report, reported, reporting, reproach, reproaches, reproof, \softline
reside, residence, rest, rest, rested, resurrection, return, returned, returning, revile, reviling, reward, riches, ridiculed, \softline
righteous, righteousness, righteousnesses, ring, rinsed, rinsing, rip, ripped, rips, rise, risen, rises, rising, river, road, \softline
roaring, roars, rod, rods, roll, rolled, roosters, rooster, rooted, rose, rotted, rotten, royal, rule, ruler, rulers, run, \softline
running, runs, sacred, sacrifice, sacrificed, sacrificing, said, sail, sailed, sailing, sails, salt, salted, salvation, sat, save, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 saved, saw, say, saying, says, scatter, scattered, scatters, scorch, scorched, scorching, scorned, scourge, scourged, \softline
scourges, scripture, scriptures, sea, seal, sealed, seas, seated, second, secure, secured, see, seed, seeing, seek, \softline
seeking, seeks, seen, sees, seize, seized, self-control, self-controlled, self-discipline, selfish, sell, seller, selling, sells, \softline
send, sending, sends, sensible, sensual-delight, sent, sentence, separate, separating, service, set-sail, set, setting, \softline
seven, seventy, shadow, shake-off, shake, shame, shameful, shames, shed, shedding, sheep, shepherd, shepherds, \softline
shine, shined, shone, shook-off, shook, short, shortly, shouted, shouting, shoveled, show, showed, showing, shown-partiality, shown, shows-partiality, shows, sick, sickness, sicknesses, sight, signaled, signaling, silent, silver, similar, \softline
sin, since, sing, singing, sinned, sinning, sins, sit, sitting, six, slaps, slaughter, slaughtered, sleep, slow, smuggle, \softline
smuggled, so-great, sober, soldier, soldiers, sore, sores, sorrow, sorrowful, sorrowing, sorrows, sort, sought, soul, \softline
souls, speak, speaking, speaks, spectacle, speech, speechless, spend, spit, spiteful, split, spoke, spoken, sprang, \softline
spread, sprinkling, sprung, stain, stand, standing, stands, star, stars, step, stepped, stepping, steps, steward, stirred, \softline
stirring, stone, stoned, stones, stood, stoop, stooped, stooping, store, stored, storing, straight, straighten, strange, \softline
strength, strengthen, strengthened, strengthening, stretch, stretched, stretching, strike, strikes, stripped, stripping, \softline
strong, struck, struggle, stumble, stumbles, stumbling, subject, such, suddenly, suffer, suffered, suffering, sufferings, \softline
suffers, sufficient, sum, summed, summon, summoned, summoning, summons, sung, superiority, supper, \softline
supplications, supplied, supply, supplying, surpassingly, surround, surrounded, surrounding, swim, sword, \softline
sympathize, sympathized, synagogue, synagogues, tabernacle, tabernacles, tackling, take-heed, take-tithes, take, \softline
taken-tithes, taken, takes, taking, talants, talant, talk, talked, taught, tax, teach, teacher, teachers, teaching, teachings, \softline
tear-down, tell, temple, tempt, tempted, tempts, ten-thousand, tens, tenth, terrified, test, tested, testified, testifies, \softline
testify, testifying, testimonies, testimony, testing, tetrarch, thank, thanked, thanking, thanks, thereafter, therefore, \softline
third, thirst, thoroughly, thousand, thousands, three, threshing, through, thrust, tie, tied, tithe, tithes, together, told, \softline
tolerate, tolerating, tomb, tombs, took-heed, took, top, torment, tormented, torn-down, toss, tossed, tossing, touch, \softline
touched, trade, trading, trample, trampled, tramples, transfer, transferred, transferring, transformed, translate, \softline
translated, translates, translation, travail, travails, travel, traveled, traveling, treachery, treasure, treasures, treatment, \softline
trembling, trial, tribe, tribes, tribute, trouble, troubled, true, truly, truth, turn, turned, turning, turns, twelve, twice, \softline
twice, two, unable, unblemished, uncertainty, understand, understanding, understands, understood, unfading, \softline
ungodly, united, unspeakable, unveiled, upper, upright, uproar, use, used, useful, useless, using, validated, victory, \softline
viewed, viewing, villainy, violent, vision, visions, voyage, voyaging, wait, waited, waiting, walk, wall, war, warring, \softline
washed, watch, watched, watches, watching, water, waves, way, weak, weakness, weeping, well, whisperers, white, \softline
whole, wicked, wife, wild, wilderness, wildernesses, will, willed, willfully, willing, wills, wind, winepress, winter, \softline
wipe, wise, wiser, withdraw, within, withstood, witness, witnesses, women, word, words, work, worked, worker, \softline
workers, working, works, world, worship, worshiped, worshiping, worthily, worthy, wounds, wrath, write, writing, \softline
writings, written, wrote, year, years, yoke, yoked, young-men, young, zealous.}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 English words in the MLV that come from only one Greek word about 4366}{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 :}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 *for, *that, *that*, Aaron, Abaddon, Abba, Abel, abhorring, Abiathar, abiding, Abijah, Abilene, ability, Abiud, \softline
abodes, abomination, abominations, about-law, Abraham, absence, absent, absolutely, abstain, abundantly, abuse, \softline
abused, abyss, acceptance, access, accompanied, accomplishment, accord, accursed, accuser, accusers, accustomed, \softline
Achaia, Achaicus, achieve, Achim, acquaintances, acquire, acquired, acquisition, act-disorderly, acting-uprightly, \softline
active, Adam, added, Addi, address, adhered, adjoining, admired, admiring, admonish, admonishing, admonition, \softline
adorn, adorned, adornment, Adramyttium, Adriatic, adulterating, adulterers, adulteress, adulteresses, adulteries, \softline
adulterous, advanced, advancing, advantageous, adversary, advised, advising, Aeneas, Aenon, affairs, affectionate, \softline
affirmed, afflicted, afflicting, affliction, afflictions, afraid, afterwards, Agabus, age, age*, aged, agents, ages, \softline
aggravate, agitated, agony, agree, agreeable, agreed, Agrippa, Ah, Ahaz, ahead, aim, air, Akeldama, alabaster, \softline
alarmed, Alexander, alien, alienated, aliens, allegorized, alliance, allotted, allow, allowed, allowing, allows, \softline
Almighty, almost, aloes, alongside, Alpha, alphabet, Alphaeus, already, altars, alters, altogether, amassing, \softline
amazement, ambassador*, ambassadors*, ambitions, amen, amend, amethyst, Amminadab, Amon, Amos, \softline
Amphipolis, Amplias, analogy, Ananias, ancestors, ancestral, anchor, anchored, anchors, ancient, ancients, Andrew, \softline
Andronicus, anew, angry, animal, animals, ankles, Anna, Annas, another's, answered, answering, antichrist, \softline
antichrists, anticipated, Antipas, Antipatris, any-value, anytime, apathetic, Apelles, apiece, Apollonia, Apollos, \softline
Apollyon, apostasy, apostle, apostleship, apparel, apparent, apparition, appeal, appealed, Apphia, Appius, apply, \softline
appointed-day, appointed*, apprehension, approaching, appropriate, appropriated, aprons, Aquila, Arabia, Arabs, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn2736\margrsxn547\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 arbitrating, archangel, Archelaus, Archippus, are*, area, areas, Areopagite, Areopagus, Aretas, argued, arguing, \softline
Arimathaea, arise, arisen, arises, Aristarchus, Aristobulus, ark, arm, armed, arms, aroma, arose, Arphaxad, array, \softline
arrayed, arrest, arrested, arrive, arrive-unexpectedly, arrived, arrogance, arrogant, Artemas, Artemis, arts, Asa, \softline
ascend, ascended, ascending, ascends, ascertained, Asher, ashes, aside, aspiring, asps, assassins, assembled, \softline
assembly, assent, assign, assistance, assistant, assisted, associations, assorted, Assos, assume, assuming, assurance, \softline
assure, assured, assuredly, astonished, astonishing, astonishment, astounded, Asyncritus, attack, attain, attained, \softline
Attalia, attempt, attend, attendant, attendants, attended, attire, audience, auditorium, austere, author, authorities, \softline
autumn, autumn-fruits, avenger, await, awake, ax, Azor, Azotus, Baal, babbler, babies, baby, Babylon, backs, \softline
baggage, Balaam, Balak, balance, banded, banish, banished, bank, bankers, banquet, Barabbas, Barachiah, Barak, \softline
barbarian, barbarians, barn, Barnabas, barns, barren, Barsabbas, Bartholomew, Bartimaeus, base, bashed, batch, \softline
batter, battered, bay, be*, beach, beached, beam, bear, bear-fruit, bearing, bearing-fruit, bears-fruit, beat, beaten, \softline
beating, beats, beauty, became-poor, became-futile, became, beckoned, beckoning, become-obsolete, become-acquainted, become-callous, become, becomes-obsolete, becomes, becoming, bed, bedrock, bedroom, Beelzebub, \softline
been*, befall, befallen, befalling, befell, begin, beginnings, begotten, behalf, behave-as, behave, behaved-as, \softline
behaving, beheaded, behold, being*, Belial, belief, believe, believed, believer, believers, believes, belly, belongs, \softline
beloved, below, belt, belts, benefactors, benefit, benevolence, Benjamin, Beor, berate, Bernice, beryl, beseech, \softline
beseeched, beseeching, besought, best, bestowed, bestowing, Bethany, Bethesda, Bethlehem, Bethphage, Bethsaida, \softline
betrayer, betrayers, betroth, betroths, between, beware, bewitched, bias, bid, bidding, bier, billows, birthday, \softline
birthright, bit, Bithyna, biting, bits, bitterly, bitterly-angry, bitterness, black, blade, blame, blamed, blaspheme, \softline
blasphemed, blasphemer, blasphemers, blasphemes, blasphemies, blaspheming, blasphemous, blasphemy, Blastus, \softline
blemishes, bless, blessed, blew, blind, blinded, blink, bloods, bloomed, blow, blowing, blown, Boanerges, board, \softline
boarding-house, boasters, boasts, boat, Boaz, bobbing, bodies, bold, boldly, boldness, bonds, bone, bones, bore, \softline
borne, borrow, bosom, bother, bothered, bothering, bottom, bounty, bow, bowels, bowl, bowls, box, boy, boys, \softline
brag, brains, branded, brands, bread, breakup, breastplate, breastplates, breasts, bridal-party, bride, bridegroom, \softline
bridles, briefest, briefly, brightness, brilliance, broad, broadcast, broadcasted, broiled, broke, brokers, bronze-coins, \softline
bronze-coin, brother, brotherhood, brotherly-love, brothers, Brothers, brow, bruised, bruising, brush, bucket, \softline
buffeting, builders, buildings, builds, bull, bulls, bully, bunch, bundles, bunk, burdens, burn-incense, burnt-offerings, burrow, burrowed, burrows, bush, business, but-rather, butcher, buys, cables, Caesar, Caesarea, Caiaphas, \softline
Cain, Cainan, calamities, calamity, calculated, calm, calves, camel, camp-commander, can, Cana, Canaanite, \softline
Candace, Capernaum, Cappadocia, capsize, captain, captains, capturing, caravan, carcasses, career, carefree, \softline
carefully, cargo-ship, cargo, carnelian, carob, caroused, Carpus, carvings, case, castrate, catastrophe, cattle-prods, \softline
cause, caused-sorrow, causing, causing-splits, cavalier, cave, caves, ceased, celebrate, cell, cellar, Cenchreae, \softline
censer, census, Cephas, ceremonial, certain, certain-person, certainly, chaff, chain, chains, chairs, chalcedony, \softline
Chaldeans, chamber, chambers, character, charge, charged, chariot, chariots, charity, chasm, cheat, cheated, cheek, \softline
cheerfully, cherish, cherishes, cherishing, Cherubim, chest, chests, Chief-Shepherd, childhood, childless, Chios, \softline
Chloe, choice, Chorazin, Christian, Christians, chrysolite, chrysoprase, Chuza, Cilicia, cinnamon, circle, circulate, \softline
cities, citron, claimed, claiming, clanging, clarified, clarify, clarity, class, class*, Clauda, Claudia, Claudius, clay, \softline
cleanses, clear, clearly, Clement, Cleopas, cloak, Clopas, closed, closely, closer, cloth, clothes, clouds, clubs, \softline
clusters, clutched, Cnidus, coal-fire, coasted, coasting, coat, cohort, coin, coinage, coincidence, cold-hearted, \softline
colleague, collect, collected, collecting, collection, collections, collectors, colony, Colosse, colt, combating, \softline
combining, comforted, commander, commanders, commend, commendation, commended, commending, commends, \softline
commission, commissioner, companies, companions, compare, comparing, compassion, compassionate, compel, \softline
compelled, compels, compensate, compensation, competent, compile, complainers, complaint, completion, \softline
compliant, composure, comprehend, comprehension, compulsion, comrade, comrades, conceited, conceive, \softline
conceived, concerning, concession, concluding, concurred, conduct-themselves, conducted-themselves, conducted, \softline
conducted-ourselves, conducting-themselves, conducting, confessedly, confession, confidently, confirmation, \softline
conflict, confused, confusing, confusion, congregations*, conscience, consciences, conscious, consciousness, \softline
consenting, consents, consider, considerable, considered, considering, consigned, console, consoling, conspiracy, \softline
constable, constant, constantly, constrained, constructed, consult, contained, containing, contemplation, \softline
contemplations, contemporaries, contention, contentious, contentment, contest, continual, continually, continuing, \softline
contract, contractor, contradict, contradicted, contradicting, contrariwise, contrary, contributed, conversing, \softline
conversion, convict, convicted, convicts, cool, copies, coppersmith, copy, Corban, Corinth, Corinthians, Cornelius, \softline
corner, cornered, corners, cornerstone, corpse, corpses, correction, corrector, corresponds, corruptible, corrupting, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Cos, Cosam, costliness, costly, cots, could, Council, councils, counseled, counseling, counsels, count, counted, \softline
counterpart, counting, country, countrymen, counts, couplings, courageous, course, courteously, courtyard, cousin, \softline
covenant-breakers, covenants*, covering, covertly, covet, coveted, covetous, covetously, cowardice, cowardly, \softline
craftily, craftiness, craftsman, craftsmen, crafty, crashing-sound, crazy, creation, creature, creatures, credit, \softline
Crescens, Cretans, Crete, cried-out, crimeless, criminal, criminals, crippled, Crispus, crooked, cross, crossed, crow, \softline
crowding, crowed, crowing, crown, crowned, crowns, crows, cruel, cruelty, crumbs, crush, crushed, crushing, cry-out, crystal, crystal-like, cubit, cubits, cultivated, cultivation, cultured, cumin, cup, cups, curtain, cushion, cut-short, \softline
cutting-straight, cutting-short, cycle, cymbal, Dalmanutha, Dalmatia, damage, Damaris, Damascenes, Damascus, \softline
dangerous, Daniel, dare, dared, darnel, darts, dashed, daughter-in-law, daughters, David, dawning, days, daytime, \softline
dazzling, deacons, dead*, deaf, dealing, dealings, dealt, deaths, debater, debates, decapitated, Decapolis, decayed, \softline
decaying, deceit, deceitfulness, deceitfulnesses, deceivers, decency, decent, decently, deciding, decipher, decision, \softline
dedicated, deeds, deeming, deeply, defamation, defending, deficit, defilements, definite-proofs, defraud, defrauded, \softline
defying, deity, delay, delaying, delays, delegated, deliberation, delight-inwardly, delighted, deliverance, delude, \softline
deluding, deluge, Demas, demeanor, Demetrius, demolished, demolishing, demolition, demon-possessed, demonic, \softline
demonstration, den, depart, departing, departure, deposit, depository, depressed, deprive, deprived, depths, derive, \softline
desecrate, desecrated, desecrates, designate, designated, designates, desired, desirers, desiring, desolation, \softline
despaired, despairing, despisers, despising, destined, destruction, determined, determines, detest, detrimental, \softline
devastating, deviated, device, devices, Devil, devised, devoted, devour, devoured, devouring, devours, devoutly, \softline
diadems, Didymus, dies, differently, dig, diligence, diligent-aid, dill, diminish, dimly, dimness, dine, dinner, \softline
Dionysius, Diotrephes, dip, dip-out, dipped-out, dips, direct, directed, dirt, disabled, disagreed, disappear, \softline
disappeared, disappearing, disappears, disaster, disbanded, disbelieved, disbelieves, disbelieving, discern, \softline
discerned, discerning, discharged, disclose, disclosed, discouraged, diseases, disfigure, disgrace, disgracing, dish, \softline
disheartened, dishonoring, dismal, dismay, dismiss, dismissed, disobedience, disobedience*, disobey, disobeying, \softline
disorder, disorders, dispersed, dispersion, displeased, dispute, disregarding, disrepute, dissolved, distant, distinct, \softline
distinctly, distracted, distraction, distress, distressed, distresses, distribute, distributed, distributes, distributions, \softline
districts, disturbances, ditch, diversities, divider, dividing, divination, divine-answer, divine, divine*, divinely-called, divinely-warned, divinely-spoken, divinity, divorcement, divulge, divulged, do-away-with, document, doer, \softline
doers, does-away-with, dog, dogs, domestic, dominate, donation, done-away-with, done-away, doomed, door, \softline
doorkeeper, doors, Dorcas, double-tongued, doubt, doubting, doubts, dove, doves, down-payment, downfall, \softline
downtrodden, dragging, dragnet, dragon, drags, drawing, drawn, drawn-away, draws, dream, dreamers, dreams, \softline
dreary, dressed-up, dresses-up, dressing, drift, drink-offering, drinker, drinking-bouts, drive, driven, drooping, \softline
dropped, dropping, drops, drowning, drunkards, Drusilla, dues, dug, dumbfounded, dusk, dust, duties, dwellers, \softline
dying, dysentery, eager, eagerly, eagerness, eagle, earnest, earnestly, earnings, ears, earth, earthly, earthquake, \softline
earthquakes, easier, easily, east, easy, eat-away, Eber, echoed, edge, edged, edges, edible, educated, educating, \softline
education, effective, egg, egotism, Egypt, Egyptian, Egyptians, eight-gallon, eight, eighteen, eighty, Elamites, \softline
elapsed, elderliness, elderly-man, elderly-men, Eldership, Eleazar, elect, elements, elevated, elevates, elevating, \softline
elevation, eleven, eleventh, Eli, Eliakim, Eliezer, Elijah, Elisabeth, Elisha, Eliud, Elmadam, Eloi, elsewhere, elude, \softline
eluded, eluding, Elymas, embarrassed, embarrassing, embittered, embracing, Emmaus, emotions, Emperor, \softline
empowering, empty-talk, empty-talking, empty-head, empty-talkers, encamped, encampment, encampments, \softline
encircled, encompassed, encompassing, encounter, encountered, encourage, encouraged, encouragement, \softline
encourages, encouraging, encumber, ended, ends, endurance, endure, endured, endures, enduring, enemies, enemy, \softline
engaged, engraved, enjoyment, enlighten, enlightened, enlisted, enmities, enmity, Enoch, enormous, Enos, enraged, \softline
enriching, enrolled, enshrouded, enslaving, ensnare, ensuing, entangled, entangles, entice, enticed, enticing, \softline
entrance, entwined, enumerated, envies, envy, envying, Epaenetus, Epaphras, Epaphroditus, Ephesian, Ephesians, \softline
Ephesus, ephphatha, Ephraim, Epicurean, epileptic, equipped, equipping, Er, Erastus, error, Esau, Esli, especially, \softline
espoused, essence, essential, estate, esteem, eternal, Ethiopia, Ethnarch, Eubulus, Eunice, Euodia, Euphrates, \softline
Euroclydon, Eutychus, evaded, evangelist, evangelists, Eve, even-less, everlasting, every-time, everyday, everyone, \softline
evil-cursing, evildoer, evildoers, evilly, evils, exactness, exalt, exalting, exalts, examination, examined, examining, \softline
examples, exceedingly, excellence, excellent, except-for, except, except*, exceptional, exceptionally, exchange-for, \softline
exchanging, excuse, excused, executioner, exercises, exercising, exhales, exhorted, exist, existed, existing, exists, \softline
exodus, exorcists, expect, expectancy, expecting, expel, expelled, expert-builder, expert, explain, expounded, \softline
expressly, eye-service, eye-salve, fables, fabric, fabricated, face, faces, fade, fails, faint, fainthearted, fainting, fair-weather, faithful, faithfully, fall-flat, fall-short, fall-asleep, fallen-short, fallen-asleep, falling-short, falls-short, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn2736\margrsxn547\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 families, family, famine, famines, fan, far-spent, faraway, farewell, farmer, farmers, farmland, farmlands, farms, \softline
fashioned, fashions, fast, fasted, fastened, fasting, fasts, father-in-law, fathered, fatherland, fathoms, fatigued, favor, \softline
favored, favors, feared, fearing, feast, feasting, feeding, feel, Felix, fell-short, fell, fell-asleep, fellow-citizen, felt, \softline
female, females, fence, fences, ferried, ferry, ferrying, fertile, festal-gathering, festival, Festus, fetched, fever, \softline
fevered, fevers, few, fickleness, field, fields, fierce, fierceness, fifteen, fifteenth, fifth, fighting, filthiness, final, find, \softline
finding, finding-fault, finds, fine-flour, finger, fingers, firmness, first-fruits, first-given, first-fruit, firstborn, \softline
fishermen, fishhook, fist, fit, fitly, flame, flames, flask, flattering-words, flattery, flavorless, flawless, flax-linen, flee, \softline
flog, floor, flour, flower, flute, flute-players, fly, flying, foliage, follows, food-allowance, foods, footed, footprints, \softline
footstool, for-sure, for*, forbear, forbearance, forbearing, forbears, forbidden, forecourt, forehead, foreheads, \softline
foreign, foreknowledge, foremost-places, forerunner, foresail, foreseeing, foreseen, forest, forethought, forever, \softline
forfeit, forgave, forgave*, forget, forgetful, forgetfulness, forgetting, forgive, forgive*, forgiven, forgiven*, \softline
forgiveness, forgives, forgiving*, forgot, forgotten, former, formerly, fornicate, fornicated, fornicates, fornications, \softline
fornicator, fornicators, forsake, forsaken, forsaking, forsook, Fortunatus, fortune-telling, foster-brother, fought, \softline
found-fault, found, foundations, founded, four-denarius, fourth, fox, foxes, frankincense, frankly, freedman, \softline
Freedmen, freedom, freely, frequent, frequently, fresh, friend, friendly, friends, friendship, frogs, front, fruitful, \softline
fulfilling, full-armor, fullness, function, fundamental, funeral, furled, furlongs, furnace, furnished, furthermore, \softline
futile, futility, future, Gabbatha, Gabriel, Gad, Gadarenes, gag, gained, gains, Gaius, Galatians, gale, Galilean, \softline
Galileans, Galilee, gall, Gallio, Gamaliel, gang, gangrene, garbage, garden, gardener, garlands, gave-divine, gave-life, gave-thanks, gave-birth, Gaza, generation, generations, generosity, generous, Gennesaret, genuine, genuinely, \softline
genuineness, Gergesenes, gesture, get, Gethsemane, getting, Gideon, gift*, gifts, gifts*, girding, girl, give-thanks, \softline
give-life, give-divine, give-birth, given-thanks, given-life, giver, gives-thanks, gives-divine, gives-life, giving-birth, \softline
giving-divine, giving-life, giving-thanks, glad, gladness, glass, glassy, gleaming, gloom, gloomy, glories, glorified, \softline
glorify, glorifying, glutton, gluttons, gnat, gnawed, go-onward, goal, god-fearing, goddess, godless, godliness, \softline
godliness*, gods, Gog, going-onward, golden, Golgotha, Gomorrah, gone-by, good-fortune, good-bye, goodbye, \softline
goodness, goods, gossiping, gossips, govern, governing, government, grabbing, grace, gracious*, graft, grafted, \softline
grainfields, grandmother, grant, granted, grapes, grass, gratitude, great-men, greater, greatest, greatly-valued, \softline
greatly, greatness, Grecian, Greece, greed, greedy, Greeks, green, greet, greeted, greeting, greetings, greets, grieve, \softline
grieved, grieving, grievous, grinding, grinds, grope, ground, groups, guarantee, guardians, guestroom, guides, \softline
guiding, guilt-free, guiltless, gushing, ha, habit, habitation, habitually, Hades, Hagar, hail, Hail, hairs, hairy, \softline
Hallelujah, Hamor, hamper, handed, handkerchief, handkerchiefs, handle, handout, handsome, handwriting, hanged, \softline
hangover, Hanukkah, happen, happened, happening, happens, Har-Magedon, Haran, harass, harassing, harbor, \softline
Harbors, hard, hardening, hardens, hardly, hardship, harlot, harlots, harm, harmful, harmless, harmony, harp, \softline
harped, harping, harpists, harps, harvest, haste, hate, hated, hates, hating, haughtiness, haughty, haul, hauled, havoc, \softline
he-goats, headed, heads, healings, hearer, hearers, heart*, hearts*, heathen, heave, heavens, heavy, Hebrews, heel, \softline
heifer, held-fast, Heli, hello, helmet, helmsman, helper, Helper*, hem, hems, herb, herbs, herd, hereafter, Hermas, \softline
Hermes, Hermogenes, Herod, Herodians, Herodias, Herodion, hesitate, hesitating, Hezekiah, Hezron, hid, hidden-reefs, hide, hides, Hierapolis, high-notions, high-priest, high-priestly, high-priests, higher, highest, highly, hill-country, hill, hills, hinder, hindered, hindrance, hit, hold-onto, hold-fast, holding-onto, holding-fast, hole, holes, \softline
Holies, holy-ones, holy-one, Holy-place, Holy-places, homeless, homemakers, homosexuals, honesty, honey, \softline
honeycomb, honorable, horn, horns, horse, horsemen, horses, Hosanna, Hosea, hospitality, host, hostile, Hosts, hot-coals, hot, hours, householder, housetop, housetops, how-great, how-large, how-much, how-vast, however, howling, \softline
hugged, humanely, humbled, humbleness, humbles, humbling, humility, hunger, hungered, hungers, hurried, hurry, \softline
hurrying, hurt, hush, hushed, Hymenaeus, hypocrisies, hyssop, Iconium, idol-sacrifice, idol's, idol=sacrifices, \softline
idolater, idolaters, idolatries, idolatry, Idumaea, if-only, ignited, ignites, ignoble, ignorant, ill, illegal, illegitimate, \softline
illiterate, illness, illuminate, illuminated, illuminates, illumination, illuminations, illustrious, Illyricum, image, \softline
imitate, Immanuel, immature, immeasurable, immeasurably, immediately, immerse*, immersed*, Immerser*, \softline
immerses*, immersing*, immersion, immigrant, immoral, immortality, impartial, impediment, implacable, \softline
implanted, imploring, impostors, impregnation, imprisoning, improper, improperly, improved, impulse, inasmuch, \softline
incessant, incinerated, incinerating, incited, incorruptible, incorruption, indecency, indecisive, indescribable, \softline
indestructible, indicate, indicated, indicates, indicating, indicted, indignant, indignation, indistinct, individually, \softline
indulged, indulgence, inevitable, inexperienced, inexpressible, inflamed, inflaming, inform, information, informed, \softline
infuriated, ingest, inhabited-earth, inhabiting, inherit, inherited, inheriting, initiated, ink, inn, inner, innkeeper, \softline
innocent, innumerable, inopportunely, inquire, inquired, inquiring, inquiry, inscribed, insignia, insignificant, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 insisting, insofar, insolent, insomuch, instant, instantly, instigated, instituted, institution, instruct, instructed, \softline
instruction, instructs, instruments, insulting, insults, integrity, intelligent, intention, intercede, intercession, \softline
intercessions, interest, interference, intermediary, interpretation, interpreted, interrogate, interrogated, intersection, \softline
intimate, intimidate, intrust, intrusted, intrusting, invalidated, invalidating, inventors, investigate, invisible, invite, \softline
invites, involuntarily, involve, inward, iota, irreproachable, irritate, irritated, is*, Isaac, Isaiah, Iscariot, island, isle, \softline
Israel, Israelite, Israelites, Issachar, Italian, Italy, itchy, Ituraea, ivory, Jacob, jail, jailor, Jairus, Jambres, James, \softline
jammed, Jannai, Jannes, jar, Jared, Jason, jasper, jaw, Jechoniah, Jehoram, Jehoshaphat, Jephthah, Jeremiah, \softline
Jericho, Jesse, jesting, Jesus, Jewish-converts, Jewish-convert, Jezebel, Joanan, Joanna, Job, Joda, Joel, John, joint, \softline
jointly, joints, Jonam, Joppa, Jordan, Jorim, Joseph, Joses, Josiah, Jotham, journeys, joyful, joyfulness, joyous, \softline
Judaism, Judas, Jude, Judea, judicial-seat, Julia, Julius, jump, jumped, Junias, just-like, justification, justified, \softline
justifies, justify, justifying, Justus, kept-silent, kernel, kettles, key, keys, kick, kidnappers, Kidron, kill, killed, \softline
killers, killing, kills, kindly-feelings, kinfolk, kingdom, kingdoms, kings, Kish, kissed, knapsack, knee, kneeling, \softline
knees, knelt, knit, knitted, knock, knocked, knocking, knocks, knower, knowledgeable, Korah, kumi, labored, \softline
laboring, labors, lack, lack*, lacking, lacking*, lacks, lacks*, ladies, lady, laid-bare, lake, Lama, lame, Lamech, \softline
lamentation, lamp-stand, lamp-stands, land, lane, lanes, lanterns, Laodicea, Laodiceans, large, Lasea, lash, lashed, \softline
lashes, last, late, laugh, laughter, launderer, lavish, lawful, lawfully, lawless, lawlessness, lawlessnesses, laws, \softline
lawsuits, lax, laxing, Lazarus, lazy, lean-back, leaned, leaned-back, learned, learning, leather, leavened, leavens, \softline
leaves, Lebbaeus, lecture, lecturing, leftover, legal, legion, legions, legs, leisure, lender, lending, length, lengthen, \softline
leopard, leper, lepers, leprosy, lesser, letters, level, level-ground, Levite, Levites, Levitical, liable, liar, liars, liberal, \softline
liberality, liberally, liberate, liberated, liberating, liberty, Libya, licked, lifeless, lifestyle, ligaments, light, lightened, \softline
lightning, lights, like-feelings, like-manner, like-minded, likewise, likewise*, lilies, limbs, limited, limits, lineage, \softline
linen, linen-strips, Linus, lion, lions, lips, liquor, liter, literal, literally, livelihood, lives, livestock, loaded, loading, \softline
loads, loaf, loan, loaves, locally, locks, locusts, logical, loins, Lois, loiter, long-robe, long, long-hair, loose, loosed, \softline
loosen, loosening, loosens, looter, looters, lord, lording, lords, lordships, lose, loses, loss, lost, Lot, loud, louder, \softline
love-feasts, love*, loved*, lovely, loves*, loving*, lower, lower-courts, lowered, lowering, lowest, Lucius, Luke, \softline
lukewarm, lusted, lusts, luxurious, Lycaonia, Lycaonian, Lycia, Lydda, Lydia, Lysanias, Lysias, Lystra, Maath, \softline
Macedonia, Macedonian, Macedonians, made-like, madness, Magadan, Magdalene, magic, magical, magician, \softline
magistrates, magnified, magnify, Magog, Mahalaleel, maidservant, maidservants, majestic, make*, makers, makes*, \softline
making*, Malchus, male, males, malice, maliciousness, Malta, mammals, man-made, Manaen, manage, Manasseh, \softline
manger, manly, manna, manner, mannerisms, manners, manure, manure-pile, marble, march, marching, mark, Mark, \softline
market-loafers, Market, marketplace, marketplaces, marks, marriage-bed, married, marries, marrow, marrying, \softline
Martha, Mary, master, Master, Master*, mastered, masters, Mattatha, Mattathias, matter, matters, Matthan, Matthat, \softline
Matthew, Matthias, maturity, maybe, mean, means, meat, meat-markets, meddler, Medes, mediated, medicated, \softline
meek, meekness, meeting, Melchi, Melchizedek, Melea, melt, member, members, memorial, men-pleasers, mend, \softline
mending, Menna, mentally, mention, merchants, mercies, merciful, merciless, mercy-seat, Mesopotamia, message, \softline
messenger, messengers, Messiah, metaphor, metaphors, method, Methuselah, Michael, mid-heaven, midday, \softline
Midian, midnight, midst, mightier, mild, mile, Miletus, military-barrier, milk, mill-house, millstone, mind-sets, \softline
mindful, mindlessness, minister*, ministered*, ministering*, ministers*, ministry*, mint, miracle, miracles, mirror, \softline
miseries, misleaders, misleads, misled, mistreatment, Mitylene, mixture, Mnason, mock, mocked, mockers, model, \softline
moderate, modesty, moisture, Moloch, moment, momentary, moments, money-changers, money-bag, money-bags, \softline
money, Money, monies, moon, morals, more-daringly, more-than, more-value, morning-star, morsel, mortal, Moses, \softline
most-excellent, moth-eaten, moth, mother-in-law, mothers, motivating, Mount, mountain, mountains, mouth, \softline
mouths, move, moving, mowed, mud, mulberry, multifaceted, multiplied, multiply, multiplying, multitude, \softline
murmurers, musicians, must, mustard-seed, mutilation, muzzle, Myra, myrrh, Mysia, mysteries, mystery, Naaman, \softline
Naggai, Nahor, Nahshon, Nahum, nailing, nails, Nain, nakedness, names, Naphtali, Narcissus, nard, narrative, \softline
narrow, Nathan, Nathanael, nation, nations, native, naturally, nature, Nazarenes, Nazareth, Neapolis, nearer, nearly, \softline
necessity, neck, necks, needful, needle, neglect, neglected, neglecting, neighbor, neighbors, Nereus, Neri, nest, \softline
nests, nets, never, never*, nevertheless, new-wine, new-convert, newborn, newness, next, Nicanor, Nicodemus, \softline
Nicolaitans, Nicolaus, Nicopolis, Niger, nights, nine, nine-gallon, ninety, Nineveh, Ninevites, ninth, Noah, noble, \softline
nobleman, noisy, non-salty, non-circumcised, non-instructive, none, nonsense, noose, north, northwest, not-so, \softline
notable, note, notice, noting, nourishing, now-then, nullifies, nullify, nullifying, nurse, nursed, nursing, nutrition, \softline
Nymphas, O, oaths, Obed, obedience, obey*, obeyed*, obeying*, objects, obligated, obscene, obscenity, \softline
observation, obvious, occupy, of*, offend, offended, offending, offends, offense, offenses, offerings, office, often, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn2736\margrsxn547\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 oil, old-wives', oldness, Olive, Olives, Olympas, Omega, one-eyed, Onesimus, Onesiphorus, onward, opponent, \softline
opportune, opportunely, oracles, orator, ordeal, ordered, orderly, ordinance, ordinances, orphaned, orphans, out, \softline
outcome, outcrying, outer, outermost, outlet, outpouring, outstretch, oven, overcame, overcome, overcomes, \softline
overcoming, overflow, overlooked, overseer, overseers, overseership, overshadow, overshadowed, oversight, \softline
overstretch, overtakes, overthrown, overwhelmed, owe, owed, owes, owing, owners, ownership, oxen, packed, \softline
packed-down, pact, pacts, paid-tithes, pain, pains, pair, palace, pale-green, pallet, pallets, palm, Pamphylia, paper, \softline
Paphos, parable, parables, paradise, parcel, parcels, parchments, Parmenas, partaking, Parthians, parties, \softline
partnership, passage, passing-out, passover, past-year, pasture, Patara, patch, paths, patient, patiently, Patmos, \softline
patriarch, patriarchs, Patrobas, patterns, Paul, Paulus, paused, pauses, Pavement, pay, paying, payment, peaceful, \softline
peacemakers, pearl, pearls, pebble, peck, peddling, peer, peered, Peleg, pen, penalty, penetrating, Pentecost, \softline
perchance, Perez, perfecter, perfectly, perform, perfumes, Perga, Pergamus, perhaps, perils, perished, perishes, \softline
perishing, perjure, perjurers, permits, permitting, perpetual, perplexity, persecute, persecuted, persecuting, \softline
persecution, persecutions, persecutor, perseverance, persevere, persevering, Persis, persisting, persuasion, \softline
pertaining, perverse, perverting, perverts, pester, Peter, petitioned, petitions, petty, Phanuel, Pharaoh, Pharisee, \softline
Pharisees, Philadelphia, Philemon, Philetus, Philip, Philippi, Philippians, Philologus, philosophers, philosophy, \softline
Phlegon, Phoebe, Phoenicia, Phoenix, Phrygia, Phygelus, phylacteries, physical, physician, physicians, pick, picked, \softline
pieces, piety, Pilate, piled, pilfer, pilfered, pilfering, pillar, pillars, pilot, pinnacle, pint, pious, piped, Pisidia, pit, \softline
pitched, pitcher, pitchers, pitiful, pity, plague, plagues, plain, plainly, plan-for, planing-for, planks, planted, planting, \softline
plants, plate, platter, play, plead, pleaded, pledge, plow, plowing, plucked, plucking, plumpness, plus, pods, poets, \softline
point, poison, polished, pollutions, pomp, Pontius, Pontus, pool, popped, porch, porches, Porcius, portion, \softline
portrayed, possess, possessed, possesses, possessing, possession, possible, postpone, postponed, pot, pots, pound, \softline
poundage, pounded, pounds, pour, poverty, powers, practicing-magic, prayers, preacher, prearrange, precede, \softline
preceded, precedes, preceding, precisely, predefined, predetermined, preeminent, pregnant, pregnant*, prejudice, \softline
premature-baby, presence, presented, presently, presents, preservation, preserve, pressure, preteen, pretended, \softline
pretext, prevented, preventing, previous, previously, prey, priced, prices, priestly, principalities, principality, \softline
principles, Prisca, Priscilla, privately, probe, proceed, proceeded, Prochorus, proclaimed, proclaims, procure, \softline
procured, product, profess, professed, professing, professor, professors, profit's, profitable, progressed, prolonged, \softline
prominence, prominent, promiscuity, promiscuous, promote, promotes, promptly, propel, properties, property, \softline
prophecy, prophesied, prophesy, prophesying, prophetess, prophetic, proposes, prosper, prospered, prospers, \softline
protected, proven, proverb, provide, provided, provides, providing, province, provisions, provoke, provoking, prow, \softline
prudence, prudent, prudently, prunes, psalm, psalms, Ptolemais, public-reforms, public-reading, publicly, Publius, \softline
Pudens, puffed, puke, pull, puppies, purchased, pure, purely, purest, purification, purified, purifies, purify, \softline
purifying, pursuits, pushed, Puteoli, quarrelsome, Quartus, queen, quench, quenched, question, questionings, \softline
questions, quick-tempered, Quirinius, quite-well, quizzing, Rabbi, Rabboni, race, Rachel, radiance, radiant, \softline
radiantly, rage, railing, rainbow, raise*, raised*, Ram, Ramah, rank, ransom, rash, rather, rations, ravenous, ravens, \softline
rays, really, reap, reaped, reapers, reaping, reasonings, reasons, Rebecca, rebelled, rebellion, rebellious, rebirth, \softline
rebuke, rebuked, rebuking, recently, reception, recognize, recognized, recompense, reconciliation, recover, \softline
recovered, recovery, red, Red, redeem, redeemed, redeemer, reed, refined, reflection, reformation, refraining, \softline
refreshed, refuge, refuses, refuted, regard-lightly, regard, register, registered, regret, regretted, regretting, \softline
Rehoboam, reigned, reigning, reigns, reimbursement, reject, rejected, rejected*, rejecting, rejects, rekindle, \softline
relaxation, relaxed, release, released, relief, relieve, relieved, removal, remove, removed, Remphan, renewal, \softline
renounce, renounced, rent, rented, rented-house, repayment, repays, repent, repentance, repented, repents, \softline
repetitious, replenished, replenishing, report, reports, representation, reproached, reproaching, reprove, reproved, \softline
reptiles, repute, reputed, request, requested, requesting, requests, required, requirements, rescue, rescued, rescues, \softline
rescuing, resembles, resided, residency, residing, resist, resisted, resisting, resists, respect, respectable, respectively, \softline
restfulness, restless, restoration, restore, restored, restores, restoring, restraints, restricting, rests, retaliated, Reu, \softline
Reuben, reveal, revealed, revealing, revelation, revelations, reveling, revelings, revere, revered, reverence, reverent, \softline
reviled, reviler, revilers, revisit, rewarder, Rhegium, Rhesa, Rhoda, Rhodes, ribs, rich, richly, ridden, right, \softline
righteously, ringleader, riot, rioters, riotous, riotousness, ripe, ripping, rise*, risen*, rises*, rising*, risked, rivers, \softline
roads, robbed, robber, robbers, robe, robes, rock, rocks, rocky, Roman, Romans, Rome, roof, root, roots, ropes, \softline
rose*, rotated, rough, rouse, route, rowed, rowing, rows, rubbing, rudder, rudders, rue, Rufus, ruins, rumor, \softline
ruptured, rural, rushed, rust, Ruth, sabachthani, Sabbath-rest, sackcloth, sacrifices, Sadducees, Sadoc, sailors, \softline
Salamis, Salem, Salmon, Salmone, Salome, salty, Samos, Samothrace, Samson, Samuel, sanctification, sanctified, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn547\margrsxn2736\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx0\tx1134\tx2268\tx3402\tx4536\tx5670\tx6804\tx7938\tx9072 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 sanctifies, sanctify, sanctifying, sanctuary, sand, Sanhedrin, Sapphira, sapphire, Sarah, Sardis, sardonyx, satisfied, \softline
saves, sawed, sayings, scales, scarcely, scared, scarlet, scene, scepter, Sceva, schemes, scholarship, school, scoffed, \softline
scolded, scorn, scorning, scorpion, scorpions, scribe, scribes, scroll, scum, Scythian, sea-creatures, sea-coast, sea-creature, sealing, seals, seamless, search, searched, searching, season, seasoned, seasons, seat, seating, seats, \softline
secondly, secret, secretly, secrets, sect, sectarian, sectioning, sections, sects, Secundus, securely, security, seduced, \softline
seeds, seem, seemed, seems, seizes, seizing, seizure, select, selected, selectively, Seleucia, self-indulgent, self-sufficiency, self-willed, self-condemned, Semein, sense, senses, sensual-delights, sentries, sentry, separate*, \softline
separated, separated*, separates, separates*, sergeants, Sergius, serpent, serpents, Serug, servant, servants, serve, \softline
serve*, served, served*, serves, service, services, serving, serving*, set-free, Seth, setting-sail, settle, settles, \softline
seventh, severity, sewer, sews, shackles, shaken, shamed, shaming, share, shared, sharing, Sharon, sharp, sharp-disagreement, sharper, sharply, shattered, shave, shaved, Shealtiel, sheared, shearer, sheath, Shechem, shed-tears, \softline
sheepskins, sheet, Shelah, Shem, shepherding, shield, shines, shining, ship, ship-owner, ships, shipwrecked, shoes, \softline
shook, shooting, shoots, shore, short-sighted, shortage, shortened, shot, shoulders, shoveled, showbread, showing-mercy, shown-mercy, shows-mercy, shrank-back, shreds, shrines, shrink-back, shrinking-back, shrinks-back, \softline
shudder, shun, shunned, sickle, sift, sighed, sighing, sign, signal-agreement, signals, signified, signify, signifying, \softline
signs, Silas, silence, silk, Siloam, Silvanus, silversmith, Simeon, simplicity, Sinai, sincere, sincerity, sinful, sing-praise, singing-praise, sink, sinner, sinners, sister, sisters, sits, sixth, sixty, skeptical, skilled, skin, skippers, skull, \softline
slander, slanderer, slanderers, slandering, slanders, slap, slapped, slay, sleep, sleeping, sleeping-around, \softline
sleeplessness, slept, slew, slipped, slowly, slowness, sluggish, slumber, slumbered, small-boat, small-boats, small, \softline
small-fish, smallest, smash, smell, smoke, smoking, smooth, smooth-talk, smoother, Smyrna, snake, snare, sneaked, \softline
sneaking, sneered, sneering, snow, so-then, so-many, so-much, so-that, so, socialize, Sodom, soft, softly, soil, \softline
sojourned, sojourning, solid, solid-ground, Solomon, some, someday, somehow, someone, something, somewhere, \softline
song, songs, sons, sonship, Sopater, sorcerers, sorceries, sorcery, sorrow-free, sorrowful, sorry, Sosipater, \softline
Sosthenes, sound, sound*, sounded, sounds, south, southwest, sovereign, sovereigns, sow, sowed, sower, sowing, \softline
sown, sows, Spain, spare, sparing, sparingly, sparrows, spat, spear, spearmen, special, speck, spend, spent, spice, \softline
spices, spies, spilled, spin, spinning, spirit, Spirit, spirit*, spirits, spirits*, spiritual, spiritually, splashing, splendor, \softline
split-apart, splits, spoils, sponge, spreading, spring, springing, springs, sprinkled, sprout, sprouted, spurn, spurred, \softline
spy, squall, squandered, squandering, squares, stabbed, Stachys, stadium, staff, staffs, stained, stains, staked-through, stand-ready, stand-erect, stand-firm, standard*, stands-ready, stare, stared, staring, start, starting-point, \softline
starving, stature, stayed, staying, steadfast, steal, stealing, steals, steer, steersman, Stephanas, Stephen, sterile, stern, \softline
stewards, stewardship, stick-around, sticks, stiff-necked, still, stimulated, stinks, stocks, Stoic, stole, stomach, stood-erect, stopped, storeroom, storerooms, storm-tossed, storm, story, stoutly, straightened, strain, stranger, strangers, \softline
strangled, strap, straps, straw, street, streets, strictest, strife, strifes, striking, stroke, strolling, strong-enough, \softline
strongholds, structure, stuck-around, stuck, study, stumbled, stupor, subjected, subjecting, subjection, subjugated, \softline
submissive, submitted, substantially, subterranean, succession, successor, succumbed, such-as, sudden, suffer-hardship, suffer-punishment, suffer-damage, suffers-violently, sufficiency, suggest, suitable, summation, summer, \softline
sumptuously, sun, sunk, superfluous, superior, superior-stations, suppers, supplication, supported, suppose, \softline
supposed, supposes, supposing, supremacy, surely, surname, surnamed, surpasses, surpassing, surpassingly-better, \softline
surprised, surprising, Susanna, suspense, suspicions, sustenance, swaddled, swallow, swallowed, swear, swears, \softline
sweat, sweep, sweet, sweet-fragrance, swell, swept, swift, swindler, swindlers, swindling, swine, swords, swore, \softline
sworn, sycamore, Sychar, Symeon, sympathetic, Syntyche, Syracuse, Syria, Syrian, Syrophoenician, Syrtis, Tabitha, \softline
table, tables, tablets, tail, tails, take-advantage, take-hold, taken-hold, taken-advantage, taken-heed, takes-advantage, \softline
taking-hold, taking-heed, talants, Talitha, talked-about, talking, Tamar, tame, tamed, tanner, tarnish, tarnished, taste, \softline
tasted, Taverns, tax-office, taxes, teaches, tear, tears, tedious, teeth, telling, temperate, tempest, temple-keeper, \softline
temples, temporary, temptation, temptations, tempter, ten, tender, tenderly, tending, tent, tents, Terah, terminated, \softline
termination, terrestrial, terribly, territory, terror, terrors, Tertius, Tertullus, tests, thankful, thanksgiving, \softline
thanksgivings, that*, theater, thefts, then, then*, Theophilus, thereafter, thereon, Thessalonians, Thessalonica, \softline
Theudas, thick, thief, thieves, thigh, think, thinking, thinks, thirsty, thirty, thistles, Thomas, thorn, thorns, thorny, \softline
thoroughfares, thought, threaten, threatened, threatening, threats, three-gallon, threw, throat, throne, thrones, \softline
throughout, throw, thunder, thunders, thunderstorm, thus, Thyatira, Tiberias, Tiberius, tiles, till, Timaeus, Timon, \softline
Timothy, tip, title, Titus, today, tolerable, tomorrow, tongue, tongues, too, took-advantage, took-hold, tooth, topaz, \softline
tops, torch, torches, tore-down, tormenting, torments, torn, tortured, torturers, touching, towel, tower, towns, traced, \softline
Trachonitis, tracks, tradeoffs, tradition, traditions, train, trance, tranquil, transfigured, transgress, transgressed, 
\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn2736\margrsxn547\margtsxn1639\pgndec\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs20{
\posxl\nowrap \plain \fs20 \cf4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst { PAGE  }}}\par}
\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Modern Literal Version 2015 - The Open Bible Translation\par }\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 transgresses, transgressing, transgression, transgressions, transgressor, transgressors, translator, transparent, \softline
transpire, transplanted, trap, trash, trauma, traumatized, travelers, traveling-associates, traveling, traveling-associate, \softline
travels, treacherous, treasured, treasury, treat, treated, tremble, trespass, trespasses, trickery, trimmed, trip, tripped, \softline
trips, triumph, triumphing, Troas, Trogyllium, Trophimus, trumpet, trumpeters, trumpets, trust, trusted, Tryphaena, \softline
Tryphosa, tunic, tunics, turnabout, turtledoves, tutor, tutors, twelfth, twelve-bushel, twenty, Twin, twisted, twisting, \softline
two-hundred, two-denarius, Tychicus, typhoon, Tyrannus, unapparent, unapproachable, unapproved, unashamed, \softline
unattended, unbearable, unbelief, unbelievable, unbeliever, unbelievers, unbelieving, unbridled-lusts, unchangeable, \softline
uncircumcision, unclean, uncleanness, uncondemned, uncontrollable, undefiled, undeniable, undeniably, \softline
undergirding, undergo, undergoes, underneath, undertaken, undertaking, undertook, underwent, undeservedly, \softline
undiluted, unending, unequally, unfailing, unfaithful, unfit, unforbidden, unfruitful, ungodliness, unholy, unified, \softline
unimpeachable, unintelligible, unison, united-together, unity, unknown, unlearned, unleavened, unless, unload, \softline
unmarried, unmerciful, unmixed, unmovable, unoccupied, unprepared, unprofitable, unprofitableness, \softline
unquenchable, unreasonable, unreasoning, unrecognized, unregrettable, unrepentant, unrest, unrests, unrighteous, \softline
unrighteousness, unripe, unrolled, unroofed, unsearchable, unsettled, unsettling, unshakable, unshrunk, unskilled, \softline
unsparing, unstable, unstained, untamed, unthankful, untraceable, unwashed, unwavering, unwise, unwitnessed, \softline
unworthily, unworthy, uprightly, uprightness, uproot, uprooted, upsetting, upstairs, upward, Urbanus, urge, urged, \softline
urgently, urging, Uriah, uses, utter-ruin, utter, Uzziah, vacate, vain, vainly, validate, valley, value, vapor, varieties, \softline
variety, various, vegetation, vehemently, veil, veiled, vengeance, very-act, very-long, vessel, vessels, victorious, \softline
view, viewpoint, views, village, villages, vine-dresser, vine, vinegar, vineyard, violating, violation, violence, violent-impulse, violently-enters, viper, vipers, virgin, virginity, virgins, virtue, virtues, virtuous, visible, visit, visitation, \softline
visited, voice, voiceless, voices, void, volume, voluntarily, vomit, voted, voting-pebble, vow, vowed, vultures, \softline
wages, wagging, wailing, waist, wait-upon, wait-on, waiter, wake, walked, walking, walks, wallowed, wallowing, \softline
walls, wander, wanting, warfare, warmed, warming, warmth, warn, warned, wars, was*, wash, washbasin, washing, \softline
washings, waste, watchful, watered, watering, waterless, waters, wave, ways, weaker, weaknesses, wealth, wear, \softline
wearing, weary, wedding, wedlock, week, weep, weigh, weight, weighty, went-onward, wept, were*, west, wheat, \softline
whether, whether.., whipped, whipping, whisk, whiten, whitewashed, wholeness, wick, wickedness, wickednesses, \softline
wide, widen, widened, widow, widows, width, wield, wielding, window, winds, wine, wineskins, wings, winnowing, \softline
wins, winter-stream, wintered, wintering, wipe-away, wiped, wiped-away, wisdom, wise-men, wisely, wish, wish-that, wished, wishes, wishing, withdrawing, withdrew, withstand, withstanding, witnessed, wives, woe, woes, wolf, \softline
wolves, woman, wombs, wonders, wood, wooden, wool, workings, worldly, wormwood, worse, worshipers, worst, \softline
wound, wounds, woven, wrangling, wrappings, wraths, wrestling, wrinkle, writes, writing-tablet, wrong, \softline
wrongdoing, wronged, wrongfully, wronging, yell, yes, yesterday, yield, yielded, you, you*, young-man, young-servant, young-servants, young-donkey, younger, your*, yours*, youth, youthful, Zacchaeus, Zacharias, Zarephath, \softline
zeal, Zealot, zealousness, Zebedee, Zebulun, Zechariah, Zenas, Zerah, Zerubbabel, Zion.}{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 Note: Any fixes for the words in the first list above (remember rule 1 in the Preface); please email to \softline
MLVbible (at) gmail (dot) com. Improvements are always welcome. The MLV may not be error-free but \softline
everyone is trying to make it that.\par
}\pard \fs20\qj\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883 
{\plain \fs20 \b\fs20 \par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 To God is the glory, forever & ever.\par
}\pard \fs20\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
{\plain \fs20 \fs20 Amen.\par
}\pard \fs24\tx-2188\tx-1055\tx79\tx1213\tx2347\tx3481\tx4615\tx5749\tx6883
}